IHTEODUCTION. 



V GREAT oily is the highest result of human civilization. Here the Soul, that 
most perfect and godlike of all created thinners, the essence and spirit of the visible 
world, has put forth all its most wonderful on erg-ies —energies developed to their 
iiimoBt power, and excited to tiler highest slate of activity by constant cent 
with countless other souls, each emulating, impelling, stimulating, rivaling, o...- 
doing the others. What a world of Ihotight and wisd(im and imagination and be- 
nevolence and friendship and love ought we not to expect from this mighty con- 
centration of so many immortalities, so manv heavenly faculties! The very 
atmosphere should be purified and brightened by the incessant flashing o,f the 
electricity of intellect, and a boundless horizon of sympathies and affections, rising 
frown all these noble hearts, should spread aho»e the dwelling-place of so many 
glorious spirits, reminding them always of their heavenly origin, and keeping ever 
in view their lofty destiny on earth—to sanctify this material life and this all- 
beautiful world to God and to each other. Yes— man in isolation, or thinly gath- 
ered in feeble neighborhoods and scattered villages, is powerless to accomplish 
great works, or tti fullii the mission of his race. It is only in a large city, where 
some hundreds of thousands combine their various powers, that the human mind 
can efficiently sUmp itself on every thing by which it is surrounded — can Irans- 
mul« the insensible earth to a iit temple and dwelling-place for immortal spirits. 

Reluctantly we turn our gaze from the broad Bay, in whose musical undulations 
sleeps the sweet spirit of Peace and Beauty, fanned by the sphere- wandering 
winds. The silken rustle of the leaves overhead, hushing the pale-blue chame- 
Uon m his noontide dream of air, sheds a slumberous shower upon us. But we 
are not here for slumber. Let us on through this broad gravelled walk, arched 
by shady old trees, and hasten to emerge into the street, where our dream will be 

ion enough broken by the ceaseless noises that roll in sea-like waves down from 
Hie clamorous city. What a grand avenue, mounting the subdued hill that likea 
gigantic camel patiently stoops to bear its huge burden ! Look, how beautiful 
the prospect ! The eye', sinking beneath this pressure of imposing forms, loses 
itself in the far-reaching sweep of the street, terminated by a confused cloud of 
moving wheels, fonts of houses, and thickened air, pierced here and there with 
a tall spire or swelling dome. Here at our very feet springs up into the air a lofty 
steeple, stately as a palm and graceful as an exhalation. Within this Gothic porch 
— but of that anon. Look away to the right, down this immense granite artery, 
whence pours the turbid flood of trade and money,. gain aad traffic. Hark! a 
doll, sullen growl comes up from its lowest depths, as of iM- groans of the vic- 
tims hourly choked and thrust down beneath the wave, mingled with the low 
chuckle and the hollow laugh of the victors— themselves, it may be, doomed to be 
vanquished in the next moment, and sent to join their victims on "the night's 
Plutonian shore," where limp the ghosts of lame ducks which no man can number. 

But all this is underground, or hidden behind the massive gray columns. To 
our eye nothing appears but a panorama of palaces, variegated with eager groups 
of men apparently engaged in the discussion of lofty themes, upon which hang 
most momentous issues. And so they do — the " settlement" of weekly balances 
and the " issues" of country banks, 'Tia a magnificent avenue of architectural 
beauty— the Acropolis o. .his modern Athens— only all these splendid temples are 
wected tu one divinity, all these crowds of devotees worship fhe same god,— 



/^ 



4 INTRODUCTION. 

But let us watch an opening betw.een the thronging procession of spacious and 
gayly painted carriages, whose accommodating drivers beckon you at every coi- 
ner lo a ride upon their crimson cushions, and darting adroitly through, as none 
but B well- practiced citizen can do, regain thp fashionable side of Broadway — for 
you must remember ihat nothing could more effectually stamp you as vulgar than 
to be seen stumbling over the crockery- crates and second-hand furniture of the 
shilling pavement. Let us hurry by this other dusty old graveyard — for the dead 
have nothing lo say for us— and past this palatial refectory cooled by a julep- 
fountain in the basement and a jet de Croton in the court, and so pursue our 
walk. Hereonlhe right, stooping gracefully in her d sailing bath, and drawing 
het scarf of rainbows coquettishly about her shoulders, stands the fair Maid of the 
Mist, cooling the air with her dewy breath ; and yonder, embowered amid these 
shady vistas, another palace rears its marble front. Glorious City ! happy peo- 
ple ! nothing but palaces and carriages and hostelries — fountains and shady walks, 
splendor, refinement, luxury, and ease '. And see here — whole miles of plate- 
■ ss, interspersed with the most exquisite, rare, and costly fabrics, amid which 
_..J courteously wailed upon by handsome and happy men. ait enthroned in silk 
beautiful ladies, selecting with the deliberation worthy so momentous a subject, the 
robes in which to enshrine their lovely forms. One can almost imagine he sees 
the houris selecting each a rosy cloud to waft her to the happy soul to whom she 
is to minister. Can these splendid creatures know trouble or sorrow— and are not 
Iheir homes the abode of peace and love and every joy T We cannot penetrate 
the sacred mysteries of the fireside ; hut could we read the secret history of far 
ionable life and fashionable folly, we should encounter such a record of brokwi 
hearts, broken faith, broken vows, and violated honor, as would make the soul re- 
coil in horror and amazement to find thai all this brilliant and dazzling display of 
wealth and beauty and taste and refinement was but the fantastic and mocking 
mast of a wide-yawning domestic hell. Yes— not (he beggar's den nor the mur- 
'derer's cell could vomit forth ghastlier agonies than stalk through the magnificent 
saloons, and hide behind the silken curtains where gather Fashion's sparkling throng. 
But let us leave this false magnificence, with all its dire realities made more 
horrible by the contrast, and go among the naked and apparent miseries of the 
metropolis. There are four hundred thousand people here who live somehow — 
and we have seen but a small portion of them in our walk thus far. Let us turn 
a little to the right — or left, for it is the same for our purpose — and now stop your 
nose ! for the horrible stench of (he poverty, misery, beggary, starvation, crime, 
filth, and licentiousness that congregate in our Large City, of which we were just 
now so boastful, as being the highest work of human mind and genius, comes 
reeking round the corner, and ina moment we shall stand by the very rotting skel- 
eton of City Civilization. In these low, squalid huts, piled one upon another, 
without space for a man to breathe or a sunbeam to flash between — in these dank, 
lloorless cellars, whose blight and mildew ooze ftom the very walls, and the air is 
ascold.and dead as in a charnel-house — are crowded two hundred and fifty thou- 
sand men, women, and children within a space not fitly capable for more than one- 
tenth their number. And these are the very people, too, who do nearly all the 
real work of the whole City, whose brows sweat, and whose muscles ache with 
the toil which all ought to share, and who, it would seem, should be lodged and 
cared for in honor as public benefactors. But so does not Civilization order it. 
Here are thirty thousand women and young girls, who work ten, twelve, fourteen 
hours a day for that which scarcely, with the strictest economy, procures them 
the merest necessary food and cheapest rags to cover them. In summer they have 
work and hunger — while in winter they have sometimes only hunger and cold, for 
work is often scarce in winler,and the competition for the liberty of working sixteen 
hours for a shilling is so great ! Now then you are ready to hear, too, that in 
these quarters abide ten thousand public prostitutes— their blood inflamed with 
cheap and poisoned alcohol, their bodies slowly rotting with the foulest and most 
loathsome disease, their tongues incessantly uttering blasphemy and obscenity. 
Is woman, then, so much more depraved than man ^ By no peans. There are 



(b, Google 



INTRODUCTION. 5 

in this very City fifty thousand men morally aa guilty as these ten thousand wo- 
men. But Civilization does not punish the men. It is only the sufferers who are 
guilty. Toiling from infancy in starvation and filthy rags, working the very life 
out of them through many a weary vreelt and month anil year, they eooid not help 
but Bee, as they looked Through the dark windows of their gloomy cells, the 
daughters of infamy flaunting along in idle and fantastic splendor. Is it strange 
that so many ask themselves the question. Why shall I be thus a mariyi lo that 
virtue that will not even bring me bread 1 Nay, is it not wonderful that so many 
yet withstand the temptation 1 and ought not Society to accuse itself for thus dri- 
ving Woman to want and starvation, and then encouraging with a promise of im- 
punity the libertine to lay his devilish nets In which to ensnare her soui and hody ? 

In this gay and beautiful City, too, so full of palaces and pleasures, there are 
seventy thimsand confessed paupers, most of whom are maintained, some in sick- 
ness, and all in despair, at other " palaces" which the city has built around its 
subtirhs. In the centre of the town is also another huge " palace" full of male- 
factors and magistrates, policemen, and petty larceny rogues, drunkards, vagrants, 
rioters, negroes, and wretches of every grade and aspect of misery ; and on a beau- 
tiful green island surrounded by peaceful and transparent waters — for they have 
not yet reached the turbulent City — are other " palaces" also built and maintained 
at great cost to the good citizens, and whose noisome and infected cells, not big- 
ger nor higher than coffins, are crammed with wretches, layer above layer, and 
oh, sD horriblyfilthy, worm-eaten, and abominable, that Death would blush through 
his grinning skeleton to call them his ! Five hundred of such poor wretches are 
sometimes crowded into a single room where there is not absolutely space enough, 
for them all to lie down at once and die ! In other portions of the establishment you 
meet with gangs of blear-eyed drunkards with their poor brains vacillating fear- 
fully between idiocy and madness — here are groups of diseased and abandoned 
women pouring out blasphemies and all the atrocities of language in a manner 
that would make the most hardened man-villain shudder, (for angels when they 
fall are your only true fiends !) — and yonder a chain-gang of human cattle driven 
to their toil with lash and oath. This is denominated by our wise and benevolent 
rulers the penitentiary institution — chiefly, one would imagine, that such a thing 
as penitence there were utterly and forever impossible. Why, Purity itself in 
such contact must soon .become foul as Acheron. But all this is unheard of by 
the City Fathers in the " Tea-Room " and if occasionally the Corporation have 
a Champagne frolic at Blackwell's Island, or an extempore cold snack at Long' 
Island i arms, the papers of their party go into ecstasies at " the prompt and vig- 
porous performance of their public duties by our present Corporation, so unlike 
their corrupt predecessors" — -and there an end ! 

So dwindle away the glories of our magnificent City, which, stripped of the 
cloud of appearances in which it is veiled, looks but a vast abyss of crime and 
suffering, with here and there a crystal shooting out over the horrid recess of 
filth. These are hut a few of the black shadows which the City throws across 
out glass ; but they may serve as an outline sketch of a picture we shall pieced 
to fill up in deli. Is this, then, the highest result of human intellect ? Is it 
infinitely inferior to a Beaver-Dam 1 



..Google 




barfb.Googk-r^ 



NEW YORK IN SLICES. 



Slice 1.— BROAD¥AY. 

Broadway narrowly escapes being the most magnificent street in tlie 
■world. If the money expended upon it, architecturally, had been guided 
by half a grain of true taste or even common sense, the effect would have 
been perfectly glorious. As it is, we have time chaotic elements of a noble 
avenue, the contemplation of which gives us more pain than pleasure. 
We admire variety, as well as another ; and especially in city architecture 
should monotony and lameness be avoided. But the laws of diversity a 
as strict and as imperative as the requirements of good morals or a go( 
dinner ; and the moment the eye is offended with unmeaning incongruity 
or unsymmetrical abruptness, that Instant we have left the realm of taste, 
and crossed the bosodary of chaos. In music there are nearly as many 
discords as concords ; but the proper distribution of the discords, according 
to the immutable laws of proportion, is aU that distinguishes harmony from 
the tuning of the instruments. Take any block in Broadway, and imagine 
the cost of its construction judiciously laid out under the supervision of 
a true artist, and you will at once conceive the present mean and ins" 
nifioant superfine of expensive materials expanded into a spacious and c< 
tenuous front, palatial in it« q^pect, and ennobling in its design. Carry out 
this process from the Bowling Green to Grace Church, and you will see 
on avenue of palaces and temples two miles and a half in length, and dis- 
playing every variety of architectural beauty — now the pure and intel- 
lacteal Grecism, in its various exquisite forms ; now the massive Gothic, 
the picturesque Roman, or the solemn Egyptian — each square outvying 
its neighbor, and every step eonduoting you to new beauties. Such would 
be the result of an association of capital and intelligence, of a far-seeing 
and comprehensive knowledge of the true end and aim of material forms 
and their influence upon character and public taste and morals. You may 
smile at our attribution of a moral agency to granite, bricks, and marble ; 
and yet such is our religion. The constant and unobtrusive presence of 
forms of real beauty, whether in music, painting, sculpture, or architecture, 
or in the " daily beauty" of good deeds and expansive affections, exerts a 
chastening and elevating influence upon all mankind. Who stall deny this 
ministration of the beautiful, or set a limit to its beneficent effects ? 

To the man of taste, Broadway as it is appears like an interminable col- 
lection of richly-stored bazaars, hastily erected to meet the emergencies of 
trade and traffic, and only intended for temporary use. Many of them, it 
is true, are gorgeous wi^ plate-glass and gilded embellishments, squan- 



(b, Google 



8 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

dered with prodigality, hut without taste, and catching the eye for an instant 
by the glare of a false and frivolous ambition. A few really fine structures 
aUo, here and there, meet the eye ; but they appear like exhalations from 
an incredible extent of rubbish. A long, low row of unmeaning outlines 
and angles that geometry would blush to own. Here a brick schoolhouse, 
there a clapboard barn ; nowa penitentiary, and then a pound ; now stam- 
hling over a rotten cellar-door, and ■ anon walking through an obtrusive 
plate-glass window, stuffed with gaudy cashmeres and mildewed muslins. 
This is the external appearance of Broadway. While, if you venture to 
raise your eyes above the 4ctc-! of your nose, an interminable line of crooked 
well-posts, armed with glib bottles, and held together by wire clothes- 
lines, meets your gaze. You search in vmn for even some faint acknow- 
lodgment of the line of proportion and. continuation, and involuntarily wish 
for darkness to conceal the jagged and unfinished upper story of magnify- 
cent Broadway. How easy it would have been to have had the entire 
street lined with elegant edifices, rising and falling by harmonious degrees, 
aiid studded with classic porticoes and rich balconies ! 

But notwithstanding these glaring defects of taste, Broadway is, as 
times M, a very noble street ; altogether the most showy, the most crowd- 
ed, and the richest fashionable thoroughfare on the continent, and surpassed 
by not more than three or four in Europe. Washington- street of Boston, 
Chestnut-Street of Philadelphia, and Chartres -street of N^ Orleans, al- 
though e^ich attractive in its way, would not altogether make a fair match 
for Broadway, either in costliness or appearance ; and as for business, you 
could pour all three of them into Broadway, at any hour of the day, with- 
out perceptibly swelling its current. Taking it altogether, notwithstanding 
its want of architecture harmony, Broadway well deserves its reputation as ' 
tile centre of fashion and republican aristocracy. The shops are more nu- 
merous, more extensive, and filled with more expensive and rarer assort- 
ments of goods than those of any. other street m America ; and this supe- 
riority is so unquestionable, that all other cities involuntarily accept the cue 
from the dealers in Broadway. In fact, for the world of fashionable shop- 
peresses, who expend money purely from extravagance, to be out of Broad- 
way is to be in a vulgar and barbarous state of existence. 

The great commercial feature of Broadway is its immense and unrivaled 
fancy drygoods establishments. Besides the palace of my Lord Stewart, 
with its exquisite marble front and mean brick ends, there are at least a 
dozen drygoods establishments in Broadway, each of which requires a 
princely income for its support. These immense stores are always full, at 
shopping hours, with the sauntering Queens, Duchesses, and Countesses of 
Republican New York, half buried amid heaps of exquisite and costly fab- 
rics, and endeavoring by the help of finery which they do not want, to 
stimulate their jaded and satiated tastes and ambitions, or to wile away the 
dreary hours between one scene and another of fashionable dissipation. 
Notwithstanding the gorgeousness of their employment, it is sad enough 
to look at these crowds of Vanity's votaries, and to reflect how utterly friv- 
oleos and useless are all the objects of their lives — to think what an utter 
and appalling waste of life, and of all that should embellish and consecrate 
it — of youth and beauty and latent intellect — is scattered about these 
smothered and groaning counters. We never visit one of these establish- 
ments without feeling an almost uncontrollable desire to hang up the nearby- 



(b, Google 



BROADWAY. 9 

pamby clerks by the Leels, and send their customers home to cooking their 
dinners, or darning their husbands' hose. 

Broadway, in its aunthood aspect, varies as much at different portions of 
the day as a fashionable lady. In the early morning it is quite hushed and 
solitary, and wears that air of indescribable and hopeless desolation which 
is encountered on the stage of a theatre after the performance is over, and 
the audience have taken their departure. You look around with a feeling 
of almost uneasiness. It does not seem possible that this is the noisy, rat- 
tling, bustling, flashing, joyous Broadway, to which your steps are accus- 
tomed. It is rather some Palmyra avenue, solemn and deserted, to which 
you have been Aladdinized. Soon, however, the sidewalks begin to fill with 
the clerks and early workers, trudging down town to begin tiiejr day — the 
awakened swine gallop furiously downward to have the first cut of the new 
garbage which, despite the City Fathers, is sure to have been deposited in 
the gutters — the omnibuses begin to sidle up conveniently to the curbstone, 
soliciting your " powerful patronage ;" and a belated bill-sticker, tipsy from 
want of sleep, tries to rub off his paste-pot against your legs, in passing. 
In an hour or two the great thoroughfare will be alive, and the whole city 
will go surging and thundering through it — a human river in a freshet, roar- 
ing and foaming towards the sea. 

To sec Broadway in its glory, however, you must wait tUI sis o'clock, 
P. M. Then, if you take your stand in the door of a shop on the " fash- 
ionable side," you Vill see New York's possible in the way of beautiful wo- 
men, scrupulously-dressed dandies, and pretty children. It is only at this 
hour of the day that the distinction between the east and west side is im- 
perative. In the morning, or at midday, if absolutely forced to go through 
Broadway, you may take the sidewalk moat shady or convenient without 
positive loss of character. But at grand promenade hour, wo be to the un- 
happy wight or distressed damsel who should be seen plodding along the 
shilling pavement ! This distinction is gradually lessening under the influ- 
ence of Stewart's and other magnificent establishments recently erected on 
the prohibited side, and whose attractions are strong enough to compel the 
haughty procession of fashion to cross over. Still, however, it is extremely 
Unsafe for any lady or gentleman with nothing but a fashionable reputation 
to los^, to make an appearance on the shilling side after five o'clock, post 
meridian. 

We ought, in strict justice, to say something pungent and denunciatory 
about the wretched cobble-stone pavement of Broadway, which, although 
"taken up" three or four limes a year, does not mend its ways. But, in 
mercy to the civil authorities and uncivil reporters, we forbear. As to the 
latter gentlemen, to deprive them of the pavement in Broadway as a sub- 
ject for the exercise of their wits, would be literally taking the ground from 
under their feet. And, besides, the sight of the here-and-there patches of 
good, solid, smooth Rusa pavement, puts us in a good humor with the 
present, and makes us hope for the future. We know that the fashionable 
ladies in the metrmjolis, who viwst take their afternoon drive in Broadway, 
are looking forward with intense expectation to this granite millennium ; and 
we are equally certain that the worthy City Fathers, when they become 
aw^ of this, will push on the good work they have begun, and so relieve 
glorious Broadway from the inconvenient stigma of being built on both sides 



.yGoogIc 



10 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

[Thus bad we written on Broadway, 
broke oul with the following^ apoBErophe, w 
ae a part of the "Slice."] 

We could rail at you, Bt^adway, by the hour. What scamp, of "high 
or low degree" — what hard-hearted woman of fashion— what knavish pdi- 
titian — what pompous man of wealth — small official — blackleg— what 
painted bawd, on smooth-faced hypocrite— what idealess dandy or sickly 
gill of Bentimentr—in a woid, what form of folly or crime have you not 
lent yourself to— mada much^f ? Giving the benefit of your sunshine and 
promenade ade to every one of them in their newest gloss. Oh, the vil- 
lains tie hast entertained, Broadway ! The men of pretence ! newly- 
arrived Viscounts ! returned exquisites ! celebrities, notorieties, infamies of 
every color and degree ! And yet, turning to the other side of the ledger, 
there is a large credit for thee, for thou hast shown us the great bearded 
Turk, John Cliinaman, the Choctaw in his blanket, prophets, long-haired 
reformers, and whatever else of strange and wonderful in character the 
world could furnish. Thou hast the first of every thing — of a General re- 
turned from victory — of a night-procession with its flaming torches — the 
great funerals — it is you that open wide your arms, and give a welcome to 
great men from every quarter of the land. No matter what the complexion 
of their politics : it's all the same to you. You look with an equal pride, 
an equal smile of satisfaction, on Webster and Jackson, on Scott and Clay. 
Has any man ever undertaken to estimate the notabilities who have been 
irretrievably swallowed up in its ever-flowing wave ? Of a few of the 
humbler, we can recollect within the few past years that dietetic phenom- 
enon the gingerbread man, who, in spit« of the energetic buttoning of his 
coat to the tiroat, and the enormous strides he was used to make, was 
overtaken and submerged. And Posthlewaite Page, the mighty calculator 
of the function of A m the tap of a heer-barrel as affecting the sidereal 
system, where is be ? And Nazro, that modest inculcator of Hebrew at 
100,000 doubloons per lesson? The long-bearded man with the ioeshaust- 
in!e long nine ? And the whitewash man ? Alas ! these have all perished 
from the sight. 

Strange to say, although this mighty medium for the exhibition of all 
that is singular and eccentric, Broadway cannot claim a single peculiarity 
for itself. There is not a single feature by which you can define it — no one 
quality by which it is distinguishable from the commonest stieet. You can 
say of it, it is a great sheet of glass, through which the whole world is 
visible as in a transparency. In fact, rest you content in New York, and, 
making a pilgrimage from time to time to this thoroughfare, we will engage 
jou shall see, in due succession, whatever your heart is set on. The world 
will come to you from every part ia Broadway. You have heard, perhaps, 
of an elephant in Siam of exceeding size, wonderful docility, the temper of 
an angel — you would give a finger to have a sight of him : one day a tnmi- 
pet is blown, you prick up your ears, ajid making for Broadway, behold 
" Siam," just arrived, acd marching in state at the head of a caravan. 

The celebrated Musical College of La Scala, Milan, is in high enthuse- 
asm with the singing of Signorina Liini. Shall we ever hear her '? will her 
countrymen part with her? You fear, never. A turn of the wheel, and 
the Signorina is seen, through a coach-window, taking her first drive in 
America, in Broadway. So of dancers, jugglers, lords, marchionesses, pan- 



(b, Google 



BROADWAY. 11 

ordains, cosmoramas, dancing birds. In questions of apparel, Broadway 
has an equal variety and preference. If thoraces' a. peculiar hat bom and 
worn in Bond-street, London ; a new Revolutionary blouse in Paris ; an Eli- 
traordinary pair of trowser in Berlin ; or a special st^le of beard anions 
the Persians ; or Russian, whiskers, or Roman moustache — in its season, and 
when eaeh has attained its ripeness — ^look for it in Broadway, and you shall 
find it. The wLoIp world once in the course of its life flocks to Broad- 
way ! and yet nothmi> sticks 

There is not in <dl Broadway a nipping 
rabSe buihiiiag — ("hall we except Wnnjty 
Church and Mr fetenarts Dry Gooda 
Store ?)-r-not a monument — not a 'i^ht 
worth the seeing ' Its chief characteristic 
is, that all things shaJl be brought to i, 
certiiin well-bred and immovable le^el 
Mark the passengers not a,-, the people 
in other more Democratic precincts scrim 
bling freely about dashing to right and 
left, taking across the way at an angle- 
but all moving m a right line to the right 
np, to the right djwn All dressed in 
about the same decent habiliments, all 
carrying heads up, and observing the de 
corum of the street with due gravity and 
steadine^, Broadway never, or rarely, 
has its gentlemanly propriety disturbed 
by the rush of a fire-engine, or a drove of 
cattle, or the tramp of a target excursion. 

For Ileal life, and the display of num- 
bers, Broadway is in full force through 
Simday, and with an increased power on 
Sunday evening. It is .then that the nice 
dressing of New Yorkers is t« be seen in 
tjie high^t perfection — a solid mass from Gra 
perfect Mississippi, with a double current up 
cloth and unblemished De Laines. An army ■ 
not move with stricter precision — a procession of monks and nuns bound 
convent-ward, with more sacred gravity. Hew York in Broadway on that 
day, makes a mighty sacrifice to solemnity, requiting itself a h tie in the 
evening by stepping aside into the shops and gardens, and rapping for in 
numerable ice-creams. 

It is above all other streets, localities, and positions, the te t of re pect 
ability. If you can touch your hat to fifty people in Broadway > our chai 
auter is " o. k." — you are an established man. But bew re of cuts 
They are dealt about m that thoroughfare ^vith an awful profusion If you 
are in doubt abbut yourself, if you are under a cloud, if your hat is ru'.ty 
or your coat " going," if yon have been paragraphed as Jiaving failed, or 
as involved in any Sttle unfortunate matter, shun Broadway as you would 
a fire. You will be. shot down on your first appearance like, an outlaw. 
You will not have a minute's mercy allowed you. You will not pass ten 
steps before some kind gentleman, suddenly oblivious of your countenance. 




e Church to the Battery — i 
ind down, ol gl ^ y bro'id 
a the march to bittle could 



ba=ab,GoOglc 




bade, Google 



CHAT HAM -STREET. 13 

will bring home to you painfully a sense of your miserable condition. Till 
Fortune befriend vmi, sne;ik through the side streets. 

There are hundreds and thousands in New York who cannot live out of 
Broadway : who must breathe its air at least once in the day, or they gasp 
and perish. They are -creatures of conventionality, whose sole luxury, 
whose chief enjoyment in this world, is to have certain hats touched to 
them every day 6f their life in Broadway. This is their morning's antici- 
pation, their evening's reminiscence; and when at length they find this 
world and its affairs closing upon them, they call a confidential friend to 
their bedside, and whisper in his ear, as they are going, " Let the funeral 
go through Broadway !" 



Slice II.— CHATHAM-STREET. 

Chatham- STREET is undoubtedly the place where Swedenborg got his 
grand idea that the interna! spirit gives form and aspect to the outward 
manifestation. Patched and threadbare walls, leaky roofs, low ceilings and 
narrow windows — squalid cellars, filthy holes and corners, back-doors that 
seem the entrances to dark caves — slovenly, hard-shelled women and sinis- 
ter-looking men— skeleton show-windows, dropsical displays of rickety fur- 
niture and putrefying cast-off finery — reeking feather-beds, three-legged 
pine-tables and disjointed joint-stools — second-band cooking- stoves, coats 
and castors, mud and mock-auctions, — these are some of the leading "con- 
satinet principles" of Chatham-Street. One sees at a glance that here is 
the home and haunt of the shopkeeping, penny-turning genius, in its mean- 
est and most groveling manifestation. In some streets that we know of, 
one feels sometimes a httle — a very little — surprised at being cheated if he 
makes a purchase; but when we arrive in Chatham-street we have left all 
that behind us. The only wonder is, shall we get out safely with our coat 
on — or shall we have traded it off Formosa villainous scoured-up concern a 
mile too big in the back, but which we have been convinced by the wheed- 
ling Israelite, fits us as if for a wedding ? 

Not that there are not honest shops — as shop-honesty goes in these days 
— in Chatham-street — only they don't, somehow, seem to thrive, and we 
never heard of anybody happening to get into one of them. So that our 
Classification — we beg that to be distinctly understood — leaves them out of 
the question. 

The higgledy-piggledy which we enumerated at starting as being the 
general element- of Chatliam-street, naturally arranges itself into : 



L The Clothing Slo 


cs; 


II. The Furniturs aa 




III. The Mock Auction 


ns, Lattery OfliceB, Gn^geriu 



The Clothing Stores are invariably kept by Jews. A Yankee {'cute as 
Ihey are) slop-keeper in Chatham-street could not esist — it is a physical 



.yGoogIc 



L 



14 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

impossibility. The Jew is gentle — he ia insinuating — somewhat even pol- 
ished ; knows at a glance whether jou are from the CouDtry or the City, 
whether you have a monkeyish taste for finery and gewgaws, or want 
something rough and substantial. He is, too, a great artist, especially in 
coats. You may have experienced some difficulty and vexation in getting 
your tailor in Broadway to fit you ? Pshaw ! Step into the nearest clothing- 
store in Chatham-street and slip on a coat — any coat — and we'll wager our 
wedding-suit that it is a " splendid fit." There is no such thing as an ill- 
fitting coat in Chatham -street. Every coat there fits everybody. After 
you get it home, your wife or friends may perhaps discover that it appears 
to have been made for the alderman of the ward. But, then, even that is 
a great deal better than if it had been too small. It can be easily taken 
in ; and in fact, coming from Chatham- street, there is no wonder it took 
you in first. 

If you would traffic in trowsers, you must, however, be a little more partic- 
ular. The press-board has been placed across the back corner of the shop, 
by way of tiring-room ; and there, behind a far perspective of danglimj coat- 
skirts, you proceed to encase yourself in the unmentionables, once ano'ther's. 
Tender thought — and, atas ! too often lender trowsers too I For, if by any 
possibility they should happen not to fit, the shopman will infallibly make 
you tew ft tremendous chasm m them before you get them ofi", and there 

you have them on your hands, we suppose we must say, although that 

doesn't exactly express the idea. The prices of clothing, in these establish- 
ments, are as varied as the sizes and dispositions of the customers. Most 
persons who trade there go prepared for a tremendous dicker; but the re- 
ality so far exceeds their anticipations that they generally "come down," 
and are contented to get off with a shave, the depth of which depends al- 
together on certain little things which we greatly fear will prevent General 
Cass being elected President, It is the sublimity of shopkeeping, the poe- 
try of peculation. At first they troll you on, as it were, into an ambush 
from which there can be no possible escape. They will perhaps even agree 
with you a little, and admit, with seeming reluctance, your suggestion that 
a button is wanting here, or a redundancy should be suppressed there. 
Then, when you have exhausted your weapons; when you have said every 
thing you could think of in deprecation of the garment you are about to 
purchase ; then watch well your shopkeeper I Then comes his turn ; and, 
casting upon you some such scornful, pitying yet hungry glances, as Mr 
Webster gave Mr Haynes on the day he ate the Carolinian, he commences. 
He does not tak y u by t rm— he uses no clap-trap— he despises all such 
vulgar ausihdn H ha t himself to convince you out of your eyes 
and wheedle j u t f y u money— and this he will do. Before you 
have listened h m t j u are satisfied your case is gone. In another 
smiilar interval y b g to be convinced that it does fit Lke your skin ; 
that the pnce 3 Th. | arter what it is worth ; and that you were 

truly a fortunate man when jou ventured into Chatham -street. "We had 
intended to have reported one of these sartorial orations to you ; but upon 
second thought, we have no right to spoil any man's business ; and so you 
must go listen for yourself 

I) or the greater portion of Chatham -street these Clothing Stores line the 
southern sidewalk, without interruption ; and the coat-tails and pantaloon- 
legs flap about the face of the pedestrian, like the low brimches in a wood- 



ogle 



CHATHAM. STREET. 15 

pt.. In front of each, from umrise to sundown, stands the natt} bSack 
bearded and fiercely-mustached proprietor ; every now and then venturing 
when a countryman passes, to tap him delicately on the arm, and imite 
him to look at the "magnificent assortment" of wares and wearables within 
Stooping, as you enter the low, dark doorway, you find yourself m the 
midst of a primitive formation of rags, carefully classified into vests coats 
and pantaloons, and each neatly labelled. In fact, it would require no 
great stretch of the imagination to fancy yourself in a cabinet of carefully 
preserved raiment antiquities — with this exception : that the philosopher 
in attendance seems rather willing to sell his " specimens," which the Farm 
ers' Club, we are certain, would not do. 

The expertness actjuired by the keepers of these shops in *' spotting 
their man is truly wonderful. They know a greenhorn from the country 
by instinct ; and there is something almost beautiful in the certainty with 
which they pounce upon him and the tenacity with which they clSag to 
him. No matter what lie wants, or whether he wants any thi|ig— they are 
sure to fit him and to trade with him. If he won't buy new clothes Th.^ 
' will sell him old ones ; nay, they will swap with him for any thing he has 
on, from hat to boots— ^al ways managing to get a little something " to- boot 
and to send him off fully impressed with the idea that he is not only the 
best dressed but the best-looking man in the City. If iiia toggery, how- 
ever, holds together till he gets home, he may account himself a fortunate 
individual; and if it don't, what is he to do about it? There is no use ia talk- 
ing about trading back. Oh yes — they are all politeness, and perfectly 
willing to trade back — hut let him beware ! Every swap he makes will be 
sure- to leave him worse off than before. He had better reconcile himself 
to " circumstances," and mind to keep out of Chatham -street for the future. 

The Furniture and Pawnbroking establishments in Chatham -street are 
not less worthy of attention than the Clothing Stores. If one would know 
the ultimatum of the Rickety, let him buy a lot of furniture in Chatham- 
street. We have often seen a furniture-oar laden with this sort of truc^ 
moving through the street, leaving a broad wake behind of chair-legs and 
table-leaves, which had been jolted out of their proper places and fallen 
overboard. And we once heard of an old lady who, being somewhat tired 
and fleshy, undertook to ride home in a four-dollar rocking-chair which she 
had just purchased. But alas ! upon reaching her own door, she had he- 
come a fixture. The chair, upon being exposed to the weather, had shrunk 
so r^idly as to fasten her immediately in one of the joints. She was res- 
cued with great difficulty — but the chair never recovered. 

These establishments are much frequented by economical housekeepers 
afflicted with that most melancholy of all distempers, a mania for cheap 
bargains ; and many a dollar is paid for " cheap" articles, which in a few- 
weeks become utterly and irrecoverably useless, while the deluded pur- 
chaser is congratulating herself upon the excellent bargain she has made. 
The Auctions, too, for secondhand furniture are another fritter for the bar- 
gain-hunter; and here the most incredible swindles are d^lie and hourly 
enacted, with varnished bureaus, cracked crockery, and asthmatic bedsteads. 
Carpels that have been trampled under foot nearly as long as the Iri?h 
peasantry, are here pushed off at the price of new, and feather-beds filled 
with shavings, are bid off at rates that would purchase wholesome and com- 
fortable mattresses. In short, Chatham- street may well be denominated 



ogle 



16 NEW YORK IN SLICES 



the gathemg-p|„, of gnllibilitj. ths metropoli. o, sham,. There h loth- 
iDg re.l rehabl. or valuable about it. The'.hole bu.i.e» i, a »L~blo 
.peeulatmg, uuder the pretence of cheap utility, upou the .™e. the 
weakness, and the Bjnoranee of It, customer,. & verve cheapneS who lb. 
„ ^strongest r.eomme.dali.n, o.gh, „ b. . sufficient'^ ^roof'th.l tSS 
mu.1 be a he somewhere in the Buenos. Common seise will tell .n» 
ZIZ 7^ZT "", H ?"' "■"' "T' "" P""'"""' " ' respectable shop 
com™ T' '"? ,°""' •" "" » Chatham-street for ten. But 

common sens, has ,erj little to do with those who make purchases in 
Chatham-slreet; and ,t would .eem that the main purpose St Ih.i U,S 

Ibi ...7 ;™j"i° '"°"""' "'' "°'"" "■• ""«• '"' Pt'Snant truth, 
that a fool and bia money are aeon parted " 

co„/n,H°,„''7b°';r"""'! ■''°'"" '"• *"'»'• •f°^"- They are not 
Sen ball Tb,re'""' T '" "'7 '^"'' '°*cal.d by L thr«, 
?«„;„, I. r-,«. """'' ' """'if te jewelry-shop or exchange- 
olfiee m the City that „ not, to a greater or less extent, a Pawnbroking «. 
lafchmeutl and ,t ,s preb.ble that these pkc.s ,„ the repo^torii of a 

LTcSme"'^b.'; ;?1 ,r"'? "■' S" "•'""" ""*■' » "■« "'W »' P"""" ' 
and ctmie, than all the police-offices or charity-hospitals in the country. 



SUce III.— WALL-STKEET. 

Wb a n. Ufa double sensation as we write the words— one of 
dejeendm m t who n we think of all the million deceit, and degradation. 

anolhe p d d 1 vertigo m thu, taking familiarly on the point of o«; 
™T«, th'w lS'™W !?," j-"'"~'>" koy »■■ 'te Denim' As money 
S. »Rio b . "Vi ■»■""= .P>»ty or misery, peace or war, and stamp 
haveb tf I ,'"«="'■"•■«» the destiny of its people. It may 
A ;„„ '""S" V "any small victims and outsiders, that wi 

passed over W.ll.st,„t whUe treating of the gambling-bouses of the ml 

IbfdS^na ' '^".''"■"l"; •» Bp-ti". "<> systematic a scale, that it reaches 
tile dignity of history. It rather deserves a- place m our hUtorv of revo 
lution.. ' , / 1 icto 

W.ll-.treet ! Who shall fathom the depth and the rettenue.. of thy 
mystenes? Ha. Gorgon paosed through thy winding labyrinth, turning 
» lb. bis smile every thing to stone-heart, a. well as house, ? Art If 
not the V, ley of rich., told of by the veracious, Sindbad, where millions of 
diamond, lay glistemng like fiery snow, hut which was guarded on all .ides 
by poisonous rerpenta, whose bite was death and whose contact we. p 

Ijet us look from the ftYint. n/f tliic l.,rt,r t 1- *_ ,^ -j s . ,i, 

— what 



™„ .,„„„ o, i,,,a luit^ temple to uod, oown Wall-street 

we see? Nothing but a dim confusion— a turbid stream of 

Hosted, Google 




baedb.GoOgIc 



18 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

painful, intertwbted motion, rolling and cbafing between gray stone banks 
on either side. That, is all there is of Wall-street — absolutely outhunt, but 
some heaps df granite, as they might be mole-hills, with mea running about 
like pismires, in and (jut, and about and about. 

Hut let us look again. Wdl-street, after alt, can't be so dreadful a phce 
as alt this comes to. you must at least admit tbat it has set the town a 
noble example of what ought to be done in Ibe way of architecture. What 
ever may be its faults — and doubtless it has as mauy of them as a pretty 
woman — it is beyond all odds the handsomest street on the continent In 
the length of half a mile from the Custom-House there is a greater imount 
and variety of architectural taste than in many an airire city. The Cus 
tom-House itself is -a grand stmcture, quite worthy of being tjie central 
gate, as it were, of the gigantic commerce that pours through it the 
wealth and luxury of the world, to be distributed ia a thousand avenues 
through a rich and prosperous empire, inhabited by twenty mjlhons of 
estravagaat people. This edifice, with its busy yet quiet inmates, will 
perhaps, one day claim oar especial notice. At present we will pis') 
down its interminable steps, reminding one of the descent from the Pyramid 
Gizeh ; and, stumbbng over a row of learned canary-birds, pitching into i 
repository of carving-kiiivesd, and upsetting a Irenuel of young puppies pur 
sue our way. On either side the street presents a gi'aceful aad broken line 
of classic fronts and Grecian porticoes, of lofty steps and dizzy colonnades 
It would seem as if we had found an avenue of temples — and so we have . 
only they are all erected to one divinity and devoted to the worship of one 
god — Mammon. Midway stands tiie massive Exchange, looking as if it had 
been hewed out of a solid granite moxmtain. It is supported on one side 
by the inevitable fancy soap and shaving-cream man, and on the other bv 
an oyster-wagon. Up ife steep steps and through its labyrinthine halls and 
chambers, rush ever an eager throng of men, as if they went whirling about 
in some gigantic puppet-show, while a concealed hand pulled convulsively 
at the wire. Within the innermost range of columns, we push open a mas- 
sive door and enter the Rotunda — almost a Coliseum in its magnitude and 
spacious proportions, and in every way a perfect work of art. This is the 
very sanctuary of Trade and Commerce, those Titanic powers which rule 
the world. But they must only be glanced at to-day. To examme and 
describe in detail ■what is taking place here would detain us too longfrom our 
walk. A thousand busy beings are in humming motion and activity within 
these walls ; and upon the low, half-uttered, half-indicated di^lo-^'CS going on. 
■ the wealth or poverty of hundreds of thousands — the price of stocks, the quo- 
tations of flour and cotton, the plenty or scarcity of money — aJf will be de- 
cided. In such a scene as this the mere operations <rf. the money-making 
faculty lose the commonplaceness of their character, and become almost 
poetical and sublime. This is the heart of trade — and such a heart ! 

On the southern comer stand a half-score or so ^excited faces, many of 
them with the Israelitish nose so proverbial for smelling out a good thing 
in embryo or a bad one just be^inning to taint. These are the famous 
Third Board — mostly lame ducks who. have been disabled for life in their 
passage through the more secret operations of the regular Board up-stairs, 
and greenhorns who are very anxious to come in and be caught. They are 
at present unable to deal in realities, or " Fancies" athei-, but they still 
take the keenest interest in what transpires in the former field of their !a- 



i by Google 



THE TOMBS. 



19 



bors, and in brisk and animated discussions of the prices and 



stocks, 



prosp( 



to denve a melancholy pleasure m " fighting their battles o'er 
again. Poor fehows ! While groi-elj debating question, ot millions, 
many of them would find a most inconvenient tightness m the money mar- 
ket if they were to attempt treating themselves to a shilling stew. 

It IS now high tide in Wall-street. Every cellar vomits its pale young 
man with calf-skin memorandum-hook, griped firmly as he hurries away to 
one of the mnumerabJe Banks, or swallows some wild-loobinif " short " who 
riishes down and hysterically inquires of his obliging neighbor, Mr. Smith 
whether he Lisa t a few hmidted over. It is halt-past two o'clock, and 
the crisis js fast coming on ! From cellar to cellar he speeds as if he bore 
the Mazing brand of Roderick Dhu, and feared that it would go out before 
It had performed its mission. Ho help ! no help I everybody seems, stmgelv 
enough as short as himself. In thb-ty minutes, he, who yesterday com- 
manded his thousands, will be ruined and a beggar— a mark set upon him 
which will forever debar him from gaiping credit there again He sees 
passmg m swift perspective his splendid establishment Above Bleecker 
given up to the hands of the Sherifi-— his heartless wife and spendthrift 
daughters loading him with complaints and reproaches at his altered state 
—his friends one by one deserting him— his position lost^ and himself ,Tn 
outcast. Who wonders that, m a moment of despair, he senses whatever is 
left him, defrauds his creditor of his remaining assets, and elopes or— a 
stiU more met and gentlemanly way— applies a razor to the jugular, and 
thus frees hunself at once of earthly ills ? 

But hark I The clock strikes three. As if by magic, the bustle and con- 
fusion which bat now ran through the street, ceases, and the whole neigh- 
boyhood rapidly subsides into the calm of Shah. Stillness reasserU her 
empire. Wall-street is locked up and gone homo for the day. The omni- 
buses m Broadway expand with their double fares— many even mount the 
stop, proffering the chance of being thrown ofi; or rubbed off Arabist a 
cab, or splashed deplorably ; and the whole living scene disappear— leav- 
mg nothing but the gray stone walk and irregular pavements, and in- 
numerable tin Signs, of all that which was so lately noisy and lively .Wall- 



Slice IV,— THE TOMBS. 

Gmii mausoleum of hope! Foul lanai-house of polluted and festering 
Humanity I A chdl and noisome bkst. as the midnight breath of grave- 
yards, salutes us as wo enter beneath thy frowning ves§bul,Mi bitter wind, 
laden with groans and imprecations, hurrying swiftly away frightened at 
what It has seen and heard, and hastening to lose itself in the purifying 
•tuition of the upper world. What unsightly labyrinths of filth and abimC 
nation— what heaped.np cells of iniquity and unrepentant crime— what dens 
01 drunken madness, howling oyer the grave ot Keason— what dark re- 
cesses, sacred to the Ouija or a cornipt and abominable Justice— hast thou 



.Gooi^lc 



20 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

not passed over ! No wonder that thou art tainted with a poison that strikes 
to the very soul but to breathe. No wonder that in such a redhot furnace 
of corruption, bribery, theft, burglary, mired, prostitution, and delirium 
tremens, the very air is rarefied with erime. We can hardly realize that 
there is in the whole gloomy edifice an honest space whereon a man may 
safely set his foot. Where, then, shall we begin — on the Bench, or in the 
Cein At the Law, or its Victims ? In the Bar, or the Dungeon? No mat- 
ter where. Let us enter by a side door, and explore from the ground up- 

It is within an hour of daylight. A Policeman stands at the low door, 
and seeing that we are " connected with the press," offers no obstacle to 
our entrance. — Someljrae he may have a "case" which he has been paid 
for suppressing — and then we may be of use to him. We enter and grope 
our way with difficulty, stumbling here and there over a sleeping Watch- 
man, and making slowly towards a im and distant glimmering light. Ap- 
proaching, we see a dark-lantern held bo that its single ray may illumi- 
nate the corrugated face and ghastly spectacles of the Police Magistrate 
who is doing up the loafers and loaferesses in squads. The recesses of the 
damp unwholesome apartment are filled with drunten men and women 
found helpless in the street, with night- brawlers and disturbers of the pub- 
lic peace, and with young boys and girls who have been caught asleep on 
cellar doore or are suspected of the horrible crime of stealing junk bottles 
and old iron ! — The-very lowest and most brutal form of human depravity 
may here be seen in all its hoiTors ; and the most horrible sight of all is the 
blear-eyed, drunken woman, arrested for robbing her paramour or for quar 
reliing with her companions on the Points, and waiting her turn tmong 
negro men and women, thieves and vagabonds, of every age ind quintile to 
be "taken care of," in that tend'v and affectionate manner m which Society 
is in the habit of providing for such of her children as cannot take caie of 
themselves. Our Magistrate has work enough to provide all these unfortu 
nates with comfortable quarters, either on Blackwell's Island or m the Drunk 
ards' Boom, and it is necessary that he should begin betime' and proceed 
by summary measures. As each case is called, the Watchman on whose 
fet it is, comes forward, gives a wink at a worm-eaten BibJe on the desk 
and proceeds to relate his side of the story. This is all that the Magistrate 
has time to listen to. The miserable creature who has fallen mto the Watch 
man's clutches is at once committed and hurried away. If he has money 
he may manage well enough with the Watchman, and make h s escape at 
once. But if not, he must go to quod and wait next day for the visits of 
the "shyster" lawyers — a set of turkey -buzzards, whose touch is pdlution 
and whose breath is pestilence. If the prisoner, however, has neither money 
nor friends, Justice is rigid arid uncompromising. No Shyster disturbs his 
drunken meditations and no Keeper alleviates the agonies of returning so 
briery. Thrown howling and infuriated into a yard hlled with wretches like 
himself, they aid each other's attempts at demonism, until the whole place 
becomes a shuddering Hell. Tlie women are crammed into a long Umpless 
corridor, and lie huddled up in their rags against the bare stone walls or 
rave in hideous fury to and fro, until their strength is exliausted and they 
fall prone upon the floor. 

This is the mere fancy-work of the Tombs. Later in the morning the 
real business of the day begins up-slairs. The " Judge, as the under 



THE TOMBS. 21 

Strappers of the office and the Reporters always take care to style him, has 
taken his seat, with a well-blanked Clerk on either side. And now, open 
the doors of your cages, worthy Policemen, and drive your -wild animals 
into the ring ! Here they come ! An appalling company, glaring upon us 
with ferocious eyes, or lirid as the hue of death. Save the outline, not a 
ray nor trace of humanity can we discover in them all. Driven by remorse- 
less hunger or despair, or the goadings of unnatural and consuming appe- 
tites, they have debauched every human feeling and instinct out of their 
very being. Full half of them are' women, and, with the exception that 
they are charged with graver offences, the present company, both male and 
female, are for the most mere counterparts of the gang we saw at daybreak, 
and are sent off, one after another, to await their trial at the Court of Ses- 
sions. — Occasionally, however, a well-dressed swindler who has robbed hb 
employer or forged his friend's name, or a' still handsome woman of the 
town, may be seen in the public dock. But generally, ail such are able, in 
one way or another, to secure an examination in the private room, or as the 
indignant Reporters (wTien they are not permitted to share the spoils) term 
it, the " Star Chamber." In this room. Justice transacts business upon a 
splendid scale. Every thing is acceptable, and nothing comes amiss, from 
the cool thousand in veritable mopusses, to the canary-bird or the broad- 
cloth cloak of some poor devil, hitherto " respectable," but who has blun- 
dered into an unsuccessful speculation. Here, too, the handsome and dash- 
ing Cyprians who have been complained of for "touching" a country mer- 
chant, 3 parish clergyman, or a green Congressm^i on his way home, re- 
chive the honors of a private sanitation before the "Judge" himself. By 
the way, our country friends, the merchant, clergyman, and Congressman 
aforesaid, will bear us out in the assertion that these cases generally termi- 
nate with the arrest of the frail deceiver, and tie announcement, on th'e part 
of the sympathizing officer, that "the money has not been recovered." 
Sometimes, if the amount is large, and a " muss" would perhaps lead to in- 
convenient investigations, the victim gets half of it back again, out of which 



People are apt to inia^ne that a thief, or a woman who robs a rich cus- 
tomer, makes thriving business of it ; but they do not know all. The draw- 
backs and discounts to which a poor thief is subjected before being permit- 
ted to get clear of tlie Tombs with his prey, are a very serious ana ruinous 

reduction of his profits. What with the aub-rosa lion's slice for the , 

the gratuity to the attentive clerks, and the open bribery to the officers and 
reporters, (the latter only admitted in case of respectability and social posi- 
tion,) we think, after all, that we had rather be a member of the " Exterior 
Board" in Wall-street than a genteel thief. 

If you would know what is the extreme of human degradation and misery, 
visit the Tombs, and take a walk through its various ranges of cells, and 
apartments. You may, perhaps, not be especially shocked at the condi- 
tion of the inmates of the cells along the more aristocratic corridors, where 
the forgers, murderers, and genteel swindlers are confined. They are al- 
lowed bed-linen and.books, and may, if they choose, keep themselves cleanly 
and comfortable. But wait ! Let us open this great gate, and step into 
the cattie-yard, where are herded the miserable wretches who have been 
found guilty of drunkenness and starvation ! Or, if you still survive, let us 



. Congic 



22 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

go into the female department, and hear the drunken, bloated, 
white and black women cursing and blagphenuiig ! Then remember that 
all these monstrous creatures were born with pure, beautiful womanly souls, 
and that the chances are nine hundred and ninety-nine in a thousand that 
they were driven to their present condition by starvation and the wiles of 
some heartless man-villain, and that they alone are punished while the man 
goes free — and you have humanity before you in its most demoniac aspect, 
its most revolting manifestation. 

As to the " judiciary" of this celebrated establishment, very little can be 
said — for we have no inclination to share the hospitalities of, the polity prison- 
keeper for the heinous and unpardonable sin of Contempt of Court. In 
truth the Judges, or more properly speaking, the Police Justices, are gen- 
erally honest and vigilant officers, and discharge their duties conscientiously 
and fearlessly. The Watch and Police departments we have already de- 
scribed ; therefore, with a few words of deserved eulogy upon the Court of 
Quarter Sessions and the great and good man who presides over its de- 
liberations with equal dignity and intelligence, politeness and impartiality, 
and whose judicial decisions have already been the themes of admiration 
upon the tongues of unborn millions, we shall beg leave to bid adieu to the 
dingy precincts of the Tombs— never to return to them if we can help it 
It is true that there are not wanting detractors from the fair fame of this 
distinguished head of American jurisprudence, who deny his eloquence, 
and even go the length of impugning his parts of speech ! But what great 
man ever existed exempt from calumny ? Even Bonaparte has his revuera ; 
and there are wretches in existence who deny the reahty of the Fete mer- 
maid. It is true that there are very strong complaints made of the taster- 
ner in which criminal justice is administered in thb Court; but we Tenton 
to say that they are altogether unfounded. 



Slice v.— THE FIVE POINTS. 

TrMTiHo eastwardly from the Tombs into a. street that would strike even 
the practiced eyes and hardened olfactories of a veteran New-Yorker as 
particularly foul and loathsome, a few steps Imng us to the great central 
ulcer of wretchedness — the very rotting Skeleton of Civilization, whence 
emanates ah inexhaustible pestilence that spreads its poisonous influence 
through every vein and artery of the whole social system, and supplies 
every beart-throb of metropolitan life with a pulse of despair. No matter 
how hopeful a soul you may bring with you into these horrible precincts, it 
will be many hours after yoa have left them before your mind can regimen 
its temper. The. memory of the horrors that here breed and gender will 
haunt you like a fiend, forbidding hope for a human nature that may be- 
come thus degraded. 

Mere words can convey but a faint idea erf the Five Points ; but what can 



(by Google 



THE FIVE POINTS. 33 

be thua accomplished has been so well done already by Dickens and Willis 
tiet 1^ hesitate to attempt going over the same ground. But no descrip- 
toft of New York, no matter how discursive or superficial, could pass over 
tins, one of its moat prominent and revolting features. As in most other 
eases, Th.« architectural aspect of the place is a striking indication of ita 
character and purposes. The Five Points lies in the bottom of the Delta- 
valley formed by the divergence of Centre and Chatham streets, and receives 
Its name from the five comers or points where Anthony- street, coming from 
tte west, and Orange from the north, intersect, and are cut through by 
Cross-street, rung from the Tombs eastwardly to Mott-street The 
bmldinga m all that neighborhood are nearly all of wood, and are so old 
and rotten that they seem ready to tumble together into a yast rubbish- 
heap. Many of them are furnished with steps, from which half the stairs 
are noosing, and each provided with a decayed cellar-door, broken frcim the 
Mnges and ready to precipitate any one who ventures to tread upon it into 
the cellar below. Nearly every house and cellar is a groggier below 
and a brothel above. In the doore and at the windows may be seen at any 
hour of the afternoon or evening, scores of sluttishly-dressed women in 
whose taxes drunkenness and debauchery have destroyed every vestige of 
a^ we expect m tha countenance of Woman, and even almost every trace 
of human expression. They are of all colore, white, yellow, brown, and 
ebony black ; and from house to house, from cellar to cellar, and across the 
B8(Tow street^ flows a continuous stream of obscenity and blasphemy which 
BMkea the very soul shuddei;. Here and there, di^og in the foul gutters 
oc teking m fiUl^ nakedness upon the cellar doors, may be seen g^ups of 
ehiWren, from the merest infancy up to the verge of premature puberty- 
some seemmg pretty, some deformed and idiotic, and others hombly ulcer- 
ated from head to foot with that hereditary leprosy which debauchery and 
Iwentiousness entail as their curse upon their innocent offspring. Oh God ' 
that helpless and unconscious infancy should thus come into this sorrowful 
world with ita innocent veins filled with corruption instead of Wood, and its 
faoder body given over to the cancerous vulture of incurable disease evw 
from Its mother's womb !— And this not once in a great ways, but oon- 
ataxy recurring— scores, ay, hundreds and hundreds of them crowded ra- 
ta the space of a smgle neighborhood— bom, living, and dyin^ amid sores 
and vermin, never seeing nor hearing from the cradle to the grave aught of 
pure or monument save the sky so far beyond their reach and the wind that 
gets astray m these frightful realms and sighs as it flees away. Is it any 
wMMler that we have so many cases of "juvenile depravity" reported in the 
new^apers ? j- / r 

But let us enter one of these dark abodes. We have taken the precau- 
tion of getting ourselves accompanied by an officer, and the blear-eyed in- 
mates of the " crib," both male fmd female, receive us with some show of 
renitent awJity. It is in the afternoon, and many of the inhabitante and 
frequenters are absent. The reception-room is furnished with wooden 
benches and one comer is garnished with a bar. behind which, barricaded 
with broien-hpped bottles and sixpenny tumblers, stands the bloated mis- 
tossa of tfie- bouse, ready to administer drugged brandy at any price from 
tirea cents, to a dollar a glass, according to the stage of intoxication at which 
tta,aufitonMr has arrived. Half a dozen disgusting wretches who ought to 
Oe women. are lounging iq.on the benches in immodest attitndeWVhab 



(by Google 



24 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

others gather about you, and insist upon your 'f treating-," as they "haven't 
had a drop all day." The officer seems to be an ola acquaintance ; and 
they at first played shy, until he assured them that this time his visit was 
not a hostile one. Passing through the house, we stumble down three or 
four rickety steps and enter a still meaner and more squalid building in the 
rear, with only six feet space between the two. Here all is silent, and we 
see no one. A heap of rags, however, slirs in the comer, and examining 
more nearly, there appears a female face, ghastly with suffering, the 
eyes glassy as if set in death. Even wliile we gaze, the jaw falls, and, 
with a gtfrgling imprecation, the spirit of the prostitute seeks its Maker. 
What a death-bed ! What an awful entrance to the world of immortal 

Clambering with difficulty up a narrow staircase, leading from the room 
where the stranger's hand has closed the eyes of the poor erring, suffering 
sister, we enter an apartment separated by tattered blankets, suspend^ 
from the low rafters, and inhabited by several families. Here a mother 
hes dead-drunk in her squalid bed upon the floor, and her two children are 
fighting over her body for the bottle which she may not have drained quite 
to its dregs. There two women, their eyes inflamed and their faces distort- 
ed with passion, are swearing furiously at each other, and threatening a 
war of blows. Yonder, on a oot without mattress or pillow, lie* a paralytic 
old woman, looking as if living and malignant eyes had been given to a de- 
caying wax-figure. — Our companion tells us that she has lain m that place, 
and in nearly the same condition, more than a quaiter of a century, praying 
for death — cursing for death — blaspheming for death to come and end her 
earthly sufferings. Once she was beautiful and joyous and innocent, and 
her voice rang and her eye flashed gladness around her path. She had a 
husband, too, and a darling daughter. Her husband was poor, while she 
bad been bred in splendor and extravagance. The girlish romance, in the 
height of which she bad eloped with her poor lover, subsided in a year; tn 
another, the hero-lover had become the hated husband. Her passion for 
dress and admiration, subdued so long, broke out afresh and with tenfold 
force. The rich lecher, on the hunt for spoils, found her, and she became 
a wilhng victim to vanity more than lust. She was beautiful and fascinating, 
and her paramour desired her all to himself. There is a break in the history 
here. But at any rate, her husband disappeared, and she dashed out into 
a brief season of guilty pleasure. Some said the poor man bad been mur- 
dered, and others that he had drowned himself. But nobody ever made 
any discoveries — or if they did, they were bought off. The woman was 
deserted in a few months — who could be faithful to such a monster? — and 
fell rapidly through all the stages of prosfitutign, to end her miserable 
career amid the tortures and haunting memories of a living death. Such, 
in brief words, is one of the ten thousand heart-rending histories of the 
Five Points. 

But we must descend to the street. It is night, and the thick and putrid 
atmosphere of the place is hei'e and there illuminated by a sickly lamp, 
while the street begins to fill with rowdies, negroes, drunken sailors, pick- 
pockets, burglars, and vagabonds of every description. It is Thursday 
night, and a grand " tear" is to be held in that large and rather aristocratio- 
looking cellar across the way. We will be on hand. Pah ! what an m- 
tolerable stench of brandy, tobacco, and steaming carcasses, meets us at the 



(by Google 



THE GAMBLING-HOUSES. 25 

top of the steps ! But never mind ; we have undertaken to see the Five 
Points, and we must not stop at trifles 

The room looks like a large, dimiy hghted cavern. — On a barrel by the 
side of the bar sits an o!d negro, tuning liis fiddle, while the dancers on the 
floor have just taken their places Away they go — a fat and shiny blacka- 
morc with his arm around the wJiat of a slight young- girl, whose skin is 
yet white and fair, but whose painted cheeks and hollow glaring eyes tell 
iiow rapidly goes on the work of disease and death. Opposite this couple, 
a man naked as at the first moment of his birth, whirls shouting and yelling 
away with a brutal-looking woman, once evidently a queenly beauty. The 
other places in the cotillian are occupied by a notorious cracksman with his 
" pal" — a celebrated " toucher" — both of whom give our friend the officer 
a good-natured oath and a wink of recognition, and a stupid-looking sailor, 
more than half seas over, carefully watched by the hag who is to pick his 
pockets, and who never loses sight for an instant of her prey. Around the 
sides of the room in bunks, or sitting upon wooden benches, the remainder 
of the company wait impatiently their turn upon the floor — meanwhile 
drinking and telling obscene anecdotes, or singing fragments of ribald songs. 
This is the great Dance-house of the Five Points ; and we have now seen 
enough. 

Glad at length to escape from all these horrors, we hasten away, asking 
of ourselves, how is such a neighborhood kept up, and from what sources 
are the ranks of its female population recruitea ? But this touches the' 
whole question'of hcentiousness and its causes, which we have left ourselves 
no room to discuss in the present number. 



Sliee VI.— THE GAMBLING-HOUSES. 

Wb hope the respectable merchants and ambitious clerks who are in the 
habit of ordering supper in a private room at Delmonico's three nights in 
the week, for the purpose of playing brag at ten dollars ante, will not be 
alarmed at the title of our article. We do not by any means include Del- 
monico's among the gambling-houses, on account of such things being done 
in its private rooms. Tiler is certainly no more entirely respectable and 
correctly- managed public-house in the country than Delmonico's;. but how 
is a landlord to know' — or how can he possibly interfere with — what is done 
quietly by his guests in the privacy of their rooms ? If Delmonico's were 
to be censured for this, we know of plenty of private residences " above 
Bleecker," with freestone fronts and real silver bell-pulls, that would come 
under the ban directly. But it is not with the private gamblers that we 
have now to do. Invulnerable to the law, they escape even the long- 
reaching fingers of the press, and are secure from all rebuke save that of 
God and their own consciences — and perhaps now and then a beggared wife 
tmd family. There are more of them than anybody knowa of; and if 



..Google 



26 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

chamber-doors were made of glass, some people who are considered pat- 
teres irf ptmctuahty aad models of financial propriety, woald appear to very 
great disadvantage on 'Change ; and there -vrould be as great a reyolulion 
atoning •• good names" in Bank aa among the blouses in Paris. Bat as wo 
saad, not a word of all thai. 

We will begin, however, at the Clubs. These, although assuming 
to be private, are in f^ct. but too public, in the influence they exert 
over the muids and Ambits of the young, by placing dissipation and 
gatnblmg m their most seductive and " respectable" aspects, and maMng 
high-spinted young men ambitious to be ruined. It is one of the pea^ 
haps incurable social evils of a political democracy, that it inspires men 
just entering mto life in moderate drcumstances, and with fair prospects 
with an meitingnishaWe passion for shining, at any cost even that of honor 
and reputation. Taught from childhood that all men are equal, and as 
they grow up seeing this doctrine practically carried out at the polls, {but 
nowhere else,) and mcessantly talked about in the newspapers, they fomat 
or overlook the great fact that »ooM diatinetiwis are aa broad and well de- 
fined in this country as anywhere else in the worry ; and that the attempt 
ot a young rnaa whose fortune and position are yet to be made, to force 
himself into the society, upon equal terms, of the established and wealthy 
must lead to speedy and inevitable ruin. The successful merchant or 
banker whose meome is twn or twenty thousand! d^Iars » year, & not ne- 
securely cemproraised by losing a few hundreds at faro or brag or by ex- 
pending now and tlien an extra thousand upon fashionable mistress WhHe 
the poor cte-k, fired with the ambition erf not being outshone by his asso- 
ciates, and proud of being admitted to their society, finds his parry salary 
soon expended, and rushes headlong into debt and dishonor— en din jr too 
often, in crime and a prison. 

The literal translation of " club" is " gambling-house." Nor does a club 
differ in any essential respeet frcm a public reendow of this kind, except 
m the fact that in the former the business of plucking the pigeons and 
'putting through" the greenhorns is done by the "respectable" mem- 
bers, while in the latter it is confined to professed blacklegs. In the club 



gambling-house, you hare hot Suppers, and cool wine^ jovial as- 
sociation, and the most seducliye freedom of manners. In both the pre- 
tence IS pleasure, and the business gaming. But the club is more aris- 
tocratic, and more dearable to an ambitioas young maa, as being a fancied 
means of somehow (he doesn't exactly know how) elevating his social pa- 
tion, and giymg him the entr^ to good society— a pleasant dream which he 
never hves to see realized. The wives and daughter of the aristocratio 
mourners despise the club from the bottom of their hearts, Mid with very 
good reason, too. It is, of all devices for desolating t!te domestic circle - 
aarrowmg the affections, and driving Woman to that course of independent 
action ever fatal to her delicacy, if not her purity, the most pernicious and 
comprehensive m its influence. " The habitude of a club," said a married 
lady to us the other day. " can scarcely by any possilwUty be a good lather, 
a good husband, <yt a good neighbor." 

_ But we were abmit to speak especially of the gambling-houses— esisting 
in OTjen defiance of the laws, and with as little real concealment as the 
coHe«-houses or oyster-cellao. The public know all about them, where 
they are, who maB^;e them, and who are then- r^iilar frequenters. Once 



(by Google 



THE GAMBLING. HOUSES. 27 

in a while, to save appearances, some establishment is complained of, and, 
perhaps, tried and convicted. The keeper pays five hundred or a thousand 
dollars, by way of fine or gratuity,— Justice is satisfied, and the business 
goes on. This has been and always must be the case until we can have 
a City Government composed of men who have no party pledges to fulfill, 
no political ambition to gratify, no hungry pockets to feed with bribes. 
When will that be ? 

If you wish to visit a first-rate gambling-house, you had better make the 
acquaintance of some gentlemanly blackleg — " sporting-man" is the title 
by which he prefers to be known in his profession — and put yourself under 
his " protection." If this is not convenient, however, it will make no par- 
titular difference. Walk down by yourself, any time after ten o'clock at 
oight, to one of the finest-looking Louses in Park-place, and ring the bell. 
A colored gentleman will open the door ; and, if you proceed as if you 
know what you are about, he wiU take it for granted that it ia all right, and 
will immediately disappear, leaving you to make your own way. Yoa open 
the door of the parlor on the right hand, and saunter carelessly ia, proba- 
bly meeting one of the proprietors, who asks you, in a tone of perfect and 
unobtrusive hospitality, if you will take supper. You generally Delia ; 
but on this particular occasion you may at dove at a luxuriously-furniabed 
table, and mention to the waiter, who is instantly at your side, what you 
would like. You need not hesitate to consult your finest tastes. Game, 
according to the season, of every variety, and exquisitely cooked ; the rarest 
French mtremeU — any thing, in short, you have a fancy for, will be in- 
Etna forthcoming. A bottle of iced champagne — the genuine Heidsio — 
is «t youf" elbow ; and if you have a fancy for a glass of rare Burgundy, or 
old South-side Madeira, you have only to make it known, and you will be 
supplied directly. 

Having supped leisurely, for which remember you are to pay nothing, 
(unless you choose to "try your luck" a- fighting the tiger,) you saunter 
leisurely into the other parlor, wher^ a group of fifteen or twenty — seldom 
more, except during the races, and other times of unusual excitement — is 
gathered about a "long, low, black" table, in the centre of which is a cloth 
containing, separately fastened dow»bj the backs, all the cards of the "full 
deck." At one end rf. the table ia seated a little crooked man, with fingers 
like eagle's claws, who has a little tin box before him, from which myste- 
riously slips one card at a time, which he lays, on one of two piles, which 
grow impartially by alternate distribution beneath his hand. Every card 
that is dealt occa^ns a commotion, and a great change of places amtmg 
sundry heaps of large ivory buttons — some white, some red — lyme pro- 
viscously about on the stationary cards on the table. You see no money, 
except now and then, when one of the players is. " broke." he passes a V 
or an X up to the dealer, and receives its equivalent in buttons. The white 
ones count one dollar apieoe, and the red ones five ; so that you can readily 
see how easy it ia for a man with a bad run of luck to lose several hundred 
dollars in the course of an evening. 

And thus the game goes on, from night till gray morning — the pallid, 
eager, dull, beaming, reckless, and despairing faces gathered around the 
table, presenting a panorama of human passions, which it is interesting yet 
painful to contemplate. This is the very inner shrine of the t«nple of 
Mutton ; and t^e devotees you see here are actuated solely fay the mar- 



.yGoogIc 



28 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

pie, undisguised, almost demoniac, love of money. No scene nor phase of 
unadulterated human selfishness is below or beyond this. The robber who 
stabs his victim to get at his pocket — the incendiary who fires a city in the 
hope of spoils— is not more the slave of the lust for gold tlian that gray- 
headed sinner, or that bright-eyed, nervous youth, who stands leaning over 
the faro-table, watching every card as if the destiny of his immortal eoul 
hung — and so perhaps it does — upon the issue. 

Besides the halfscore tip-top concerns, of which we have attempted to 
give some general idea, there are in New York at least a. hundred gam- 
bling-shops of lower grades, where the business is carried on upon a grad- 
ually reduced scale until you reach the Five Point negro-cellar, wilt its 
tallow candle stuck in a bottle, its pine table surrounded by grinning ebony 
faces mingled with white ones, like the men on a checker- board, when 
the fight rages hottest. These shops may generally be found in top garrets 
or back cellars, up blind alleys, and in aI] sorts of unexpected places. If 
your pockets want cleaning out, however, and you do not readily stumble 
over one of these dens, give the first watchman you meet a dollar, tell him 
your wants, and you will be soon provided. To gain admission here, n 
ceremony is necessary. Walk in without embarrassment, you are sure c 
being welcome — that is, provided you bring a reasonable amount of cash 
with you. Without this you would be like Grimalkin without claws in a 
place where the thermometer seldom gets below *' spirits boil." 

The room ia small, dimly lighted, and meanly furnished ; and around the 
table are gathered a group of men in whom all the higher and nobler attri- 
butes of humanity are wanting, and whose fierce eyes and sayage faces 
are lit up with the most diabolical expression of intense and utter selfish- 
ness. Not one redeeming ray of superior intelligence or feeling ever gleams 
athwart those hateful and revolting countenances. The believer in human 
nature has here his benevolent creed put to the severest test. There is not 
a man in the company who does not appear capable of every crime ; and 
the only evidence of humanity is an expression of super-bt'utal cunning, 
rendering them as dangerous of executing their schemes against society as 
reckless in conceiving them. ■ 

Gambling is the synthesis of crime, and includes within itself the spirit 
of fraud, theft, robbery, and murder. 'The professed gambler is the most 
enormous pest ever engendered by a monstrous society ; and the neophyte, 
or the well-advanced disciple is dangerous and abhorrent, in the exact de- 
gree of his progress towards the finished sportsman. To the gambler, such 
other crimes as seduction, libertinism, aud swindling, are mere amusement 
and leisure-play. All affections and noble instincts, all honor and just amr 
bition, in him are extinguished by a ferocious insanity for money as insatia- 
ble and as ungovernable as the desires of a maniac or the fury of a beast. 
Men who have fallen under the control of this horrid vice should unques- 
tonally be treated as the most dangerous of madmen, and should be se- 
curely confined, out of the reach of society. 

In order to decoy victims into their snares, the gamblers have a regular 
system of police established upon all new-comers to the city, whose busi- 
ness it is to watch the arrivals at the hotels, and ascertain who among them 
are likely subjects to be operated upon. The spies employed in this busi- 
ness are often men of considerable address, and make a Sashy-genteel 
appearance, very impressive and taking with greenhorns. The principal 



..Google 



THE GAMBLING-HOUSES. 29 

means of leading strangers into the trap are an introduction to the innu- 
merle houses of ill-fame, the inmates of all of which are connected with 
one or the other of the gambling- houses. The decoy knows, how to make 
himself agreeable to the stranger; points out the various curiosities of the 
City, supplies him with information respecting the various localities; tells 
him where the Postoffice, the Exchange, the Customhouse, Ac. &c., can be 
found ; and makes himself useful in a variety of ways. At evening they 
adjoin to the bar, fortify themeless with a julep, and by the time it is 
scientifically imbibed, Mr. Geeenhorb is ripe for any thing. A walk is 
proposed ; and in the course of a lounge on the Battery, or a saunter up 
Broadway, the City gentleman meets a female acquaintance, splendidly dress- 
ed, and uncommonly sociable — and condescending. Mr. Grbeniiorn is at 
once introduced, and the lady politely invites both gentlemen to call round in 
the course of the evening and see her. The countryman is delighted with 
such an unusual exhibition of hospitality, and be^ns to think Hew York a 
leetle the ciitest place anywhere this side of sundown. Once fairly in the 
harlot's den, and his fate is scaled. Bewildered with the strangeness of 
all he sees and hears, overcome by flattery and attentions, he does not re- 
fuse a glass of champagne, which is drugged with a small quantity of mor- 
phine, just enough to inspire self-confidence and audacity ; and the spy 
finds no difficulty in leading a willing victim to the gambling- house, where 
he is scientifically plucked, and left to make his way to his hotel, a ruined. 



Going sliil another step downward ia our researches, we come upon the 
penny poker dens of the thieves and negroes of the Five Points, and other 
similar localities. These are indescribably filthy and abominable holes, into 
which a man with healthy lungs might penetrate with about as much safety 
as he would go down a well with an air-damp at the bottom. Here the 
various grades of small thieves and pickpockets may he seen, huddled 
together over a dark tahle, shuffling a pack of greasy and wombat cards, 
drinking villainous brandy and fire-new whiskey— swearing, quarrelling, 
fighting, and making the reeling air thick with blasphemy. In these dens 
men and women are indiscriminately mingled ; and such men ! but more 
especially, such women! The Enemy of Mankind could not possibly de-- 
sire more fitting and accomplished "instruments to perform all his dirtiest jobs 
upon earth. Here the striking characteristics of gambling-house, Gregory, 
and brothel are brought in the strongest relief. Whoever glances at one' 
of these places has indelibly stamped upon his brmn a picture of human 
degradation which the most vivid imagination would attempt in vain to con- 
chive. In going about the City, in preparing to discharge a task such as 
we have undertaken, and exploring the mysteries of these veritable infernal 
regions, one no longer wonders at the amount and frequency of crime ; he 
only is astonished that it is not a hundred times as great. 

We have hinted that the gambling -houses of all grades were well known 
to the Police : and we now repeat that, there is not an officer nor policeman 
in the City, who doesn't know one or more of these places, and has not in 
his possession positive evidence of their true character. " Well then, why 
are they not suppressed, and their keepers punished according to law ?" 
Soft and fair, my good friend! If we could answer that question so that 
the people could see it exactly as it is, we could revolutionize society, and 
reform the world. We may say, in general terms, that all these establish- 



.y Google 



30 NEW YOKK IN SLICES. 

menta contain or contro! roles— the whole end, aim, and means of offic«- 
holders and politicians. There is, doubtless, an immense amount of private 
bnbery of officers by the keepers of fiiese and other unlawful establish- 
ments. But the great thing is votes. So long as the party in power can 
mamma the ascendency by winking at a hundred and fifty notorious ffam- 
bhng-houses, keeping dark about fifteen hundred public brothels, and 
licensing t\yo thousand superfluous groceries, so long we shall look in vain 
(or any thorough, radical, and all-embmcing system of municipal reform 
commended for the benefit of the people, and carried out in complete good 
laith and hoaor. ' ° 



Slice VU,— THE PAWNBllOKEKS' SHOPS. 

Wb don't know a much more melancholy thing than to ramble through 
one of the extensive pawnbroking establishments in Chatham-street or the 
Bowery, crammed with their inconceivable variety of articies of use and 
luxury, from the broken frying-pan to the diamond necklace. It has seemed 
to us that it was easy to group the various articles which originally be- 
longed together, andthus make each group tell its own Httle domestic or 
personal romance. Tiles pretty half-wora dresses, for example, of a rich 
material but a long- exploded fashion ; and next them this costly but old- 
fashioned bonnet — this dainty cradle, whose former inmate, if livin"-, must 
now be gi-own to man's estate— these rich silver tea-spoons, this bracelet, 
thK massive gold- watch— all these are eloquent memorials of a once happy 
and prosperous family, driven by some reverse of fortune to poverty and 
want. The father was a few years ago known as a successful merchant in 
Front-st., and his family resided in a handsome house up-town, surrounded 
by every thing to make life a pleasure. But. as he grew^more and more 
preceptors he became also more ambitious, and gradually all the energies 
ot his soul were concentrated in the one consuming desire— to become a 
miUtomire. A series of speculations, at first promising, but, as he grew 
bolder, disastrous, at length left him a ruined man, unless he could raise a 
large sum of money by a certain day. Every legitimate effort completely 
failed ; and, maddened at the speedy and inevitable destmetjon of his credit 
and hopes of fortune, he committed a tremendous forgery— raised the 
money, saved his credit— and was the next day airested and thrown into 
prison as a malefactor. Then came forth the real and inherent cowardice 
of the man who had possessed courage to sacrifice his honesty and the 
bread of his wife and family to the demon of Financial Ambition. Secret- 
ing a knife from the supper brought by the jailer, he waited till the old 
prison was sunk in the tomb-hke silence of midnight, and then cut his throat. 
Ihe results of all his mighty scheming lie here. His poor wife and daugh- 
ter, paralyzed by the fearful blow, found no courage to look their destiny 
in the face until every thing was swept away from them— hoifle, comfort. 



J 



,GtK)i^lc 



THE PAWNBROKERS' SHOPS. 31 

and all — and their very dresses and household treasures — the cherished 
cradle where little brother used to sleep — were carried to the pawnbroker's 
to procure food. Then, when this resource bad failed, they had but one 
way left, that last and dreary hope of destitute and virtuous Woman — the 
needle. How have they sped ? Alas ! the poor, pale mother is in the 
grave, and the two tender daughters are fighting bitterly yet patiently with 
a bitter world, for bread and shelter. Thus fai' they have conquered — but 
when we think how iinscnipulous is the tempter with his dazzling promises, 
and how weak is poor, hungry, unfriended Woman, we tremble for the fate 
of these poor sisters. 

Here is a magnificent diamond necklace, with earrings and bracelet to 
match — truly a costly and aristocratic casket. They were deposited but a 
few hours ago, and directly after the following scene had taken place at a 
fashionable ice-cream saloon in Broadway. — A splendidly-attired woman in 
ithe prime of life and loveliness, nnd bearing unmistakable traces of that 
easy insolence which marks the " Upper Ten," sits at one of the little mar- 
b!3 taboo, resting her bonnet (with a bewitching head in it) on her hand 
and patting her foot rapidly upon the floor. Opposite, and leaning across 
until his curing hmrwaves in the fan-breeze she is beckoning into existence, 
is a gentleman belonging very decidedly to that interesting variety of the 
species Poodle known as " handsome men." 

" My dear madam," the gentleman is going on to say, " if there be any 
one punishment worse than another, such a horrid monster deserves that 
it should be inflicted upon him. What, forbid them to credit you at Stew- ' 

"Yes!— and for the paltry amount of $1,500. But my dear Charles, 
let us speak of your own embarrassments How much do you waut ?" 

" Genoa's, noble creature 1 I intended to have accepted a loan for a 
thousand — I am morally e>.rtam t) heir the bank with that ; but " 

" Enough. Take these jeweK — they are worth twice the amount. My 
husband gave them to me the daj before my marriage. I shall manage 
him well enough." 

" Madam ! angel of a woman ' dearest Clara !" 

"Hush, hush! Don't attcjct attention — good heavens, what are you 
about. Sir !" 

In an hour afterwards " Charles" had spouted the casket and contents for 
fifteen hundred dollars — the old Shekellte groaning in spirit at the hard 
bargain the young reprobate drove — and was dining with a plump little 
actress from the Theatre, on woodcock and champagne. 

"Ha, ha, ha!" laughed the little witch"; "that was nicely done, to 
be sure. But, Charles, are you very sure you don't love this fine goose 
that lays you so many golden eggs, spoken of in the well-known fable of 
Esop?" 

" Well, I ain't any thing else, girl ! But she loves me enough for the 
whole family. She's a trump, though, and here's her health, and fat specu- 
lations to her silly old husband." 

" Yes — ^if an old fogy like him will marry a young Mid dashing wife, why, 
caveat emptor/ is my motto." 

"There! That infernal red-headed lawyer has been here again! I'll 
wring bis neck one of these days, and send him traveling with his fiery 
head in his own green bag." 



(by Google 



32 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

" Oh, ho ! Jealous again ! Then I'm off. Beads, it ia time for me to go 
and dress. A revered!" 

So we will return to the pawnbroker's. 

Whom have we here ? A very pale, timid-looking little man — thin to 
diaphone, and with large lustrous eyes that seem like jets welling up from 
some deep-hidden source. He stag-gers in under a load of books. 

" I want a little money on these books. Sir. They are invaluable to me, 
and I shall be sure to redeem them as soon as my book is out." 

*' Don't want books, my good fellow — they don't pay." 

"But, Sir, here is Byron, and Shelley, and Bacon, and Jeremy Taylor — " 

" Who ish Cheery Taylor ? If it wash Sachary Taylor, now !" 

Go away, good scribbler, and lug back your precious books. You will 
get nothing for them here. The good gentleman who presides ever this 
very respectable establishment has no need of Byron, nor Shelley, nor Ba- 
con, nor Jeremy Taylor. Indeed, it would injure his business if he were to 
know any thing about them. 

But the most interesting part of the pawnbroking business is the stated 
sales at auction of such articles as have not been redeemed by the owners, 
and which are put up on the day of sale " in lots to suit purchasers," and 
generally sold for quite their value. The pawnbroker cares mostly, how- 
ever, that they bring the amount of his principal and'the usurious interest 
which he is entitled to charge upon his money ; for the rest, it is all clear 
gain. The rate at which he tsp authorized to charge by law is 26 per cent ; 
but he generally manages by one means or another to double these rates, 
at least upon the poor laboring people, who constitute a vast majority of 
his customers. These poor people are frequently compelled to pawn their 
furniture and their very wearing apparel, to procure ^read — hoping that 
something will turn up to enable them to redeem their property before the 
time runs out. In this, however, they are l«o often disappointed, and they 
^ with heavy hearts and Jearful eyes to beg a little indulgence from the 
impassive broker, who, listening very patiently fill they tell their story, 
raises his spectacles to let the glasses cool, and with a shrug and smile that 
need no cooling, goes on with ciphering up his gains and arranging every 
thing for the sale. Sometimes a poor widow or orphan comes to plead for 
some little precious relic of the dead beloved, and wil! even go down upon 
her knees before the inexorable penny-turner. — They had better spare their 
breath to pray for a golden shower to fall upon them from the sky. Such 
a thing has been — but a relenting pawnbroker, never. 

On the morning of a regular sale the establishment is thrown open from 
garret to cellar, to the inspection of such economical housekeepers and pro- 
sessional bargain -hunters as are always on the watch for occasions like this, 
and whose houses are stored with all sorts of useless trumpery, bought at 
various times by these notable housewives because it was so cheap. And- 
irons, ambergris, boot-jacks and baby-jumpers, calicoes, cullenders, crimp- 
ing-irons, cradles, dust-pans and dictionaries, egg-spoons and electrical ma- 
chines, fiddles and frying-pans, gaiters and go-carts, hampera and hunting- 
horns, inkstands and ipecac, jewsharps and joint-stools, kaleidoscopes, lamps 
arid lavender-water, music, raartingals and mattresses, necklaces and nine- 
pins, optical instruments and oboes, pie-pans and pin-cushions, quack medi- 
cines, quills, quicksilver, rings and rat-traps, saddles and shaving-boxes, 
tongs and tooth-brushes, urns, umbrellas, Vandykes and vases, wigs and 



(b, Google 



THE MOCK AUCTIONS. 33 

wicker-baskets, and so on through the alphabet, are crammed together in 
merciless confusion, looking as if the fragments, thrums, and odds and ends 
of a dozen communities had been gathered by the chiffoniers and piled into 
B, gigantic rubbish-heap. 

The prices obtained at these sales, as we sdd, are generally fair, and very 
often even more than the articles are worth — the purchasers supposing that 
every thing bought at auction must necessarily be cheap. But whatever 
may he the prices bid at the pawnbroker's sale, the unfortunate owner need 
expect to receive nothing beyond what may have been originally advanced. 
The extra interest, costs and charges, commissions, &c. &c., will be pretty 
Bure to eat up any overplus ; and the owner, if he demands a settlement, 
may consider himself very lucky if the pawnbroker don't man^e to bring 
him in debt. 



Slice VIIL— THE MOCK AUCTIONS. 

We hope our country acquaintance, Mr. Greenhorn, will excuse ua when 
. we felt him we don't sympathize much with his loss in buying a splendid 
gold watch for fifteen dollars, and a casket of diamonds for eighteen -pence 
a piece. If he supposed {as he protests) that they were genuine, he must 
have known that they were stolen, to be sold at any such price ; and he 
has allowed his appetite for a sharp bargain to get the upper hand of his 
honesty as well as his usual shrewdness. We tcl! hinl plainly, then, that 
his intention was to avail himself of somebody's being robbed. If he has 
got bitten, who is to pity him ? 

Notwithstanding that we don't sympathize with Mr. Greenhorn, we con- 
demn the villainy of Mr. Funk, as roundly as the roundest. He is infinitely 
less respectable than the burgjar or the blackleg, and deserves a severer 
punishment. There are rascalities enough. Heaven knows, in trade, in the 
best of streets, and under the most virtuous auspices. From the heavy 
importer of Water-street to the three-penny retailer on the comer, lies are 
told every day enough to place anybody who had a soul in extreme 
jeopardy. But the Peter Funk is the sublime of mercantile swindling — 
the result of the commercial principle carried to its ultimates. The thing 
he does upon a scale of magnificent falsehood and impudence, is done by 
the dealer in diluted brandies and damaged calicoes upon a- smaller scale, 
in a more sneaking manner. Mr. Funk sells our friend Greenhorn a pinch- 
beck watch for gold, and real-glass beads set in pewter for diamonds. 
Well — what then ? The respectable house of Wiggins & Winkle sells us, 
yes MS, the veritable writer of these " Slices," a catty-box of real Soughing, 
into which has been mixed ten or a dozen pounds of Bohea, and a basket 
of charap^ne which they know to be galvanized cider, and which cost 
them ten cents a gallon. Our wife buys a new frock at Blinkum's, which 
abe is assured is the real French chintz, warranted fast colors, and which. 



(by Google 



34 



NEW YORK IN SLICES. 



after the first washing, looks like the fag-end Jef a consumptive rainbow. 
In fact, he or she who huys any thing anywhere, mast keep a sharp look- 
out. Let a person take a thousand dollars and start down Broadway, 
buying at every shop and paying whatever is asked, without question or 
hesitation, and how much do you 
think his purchases would be ac- 
tually worth by the time his 
money gave out ? And yet, the 
shopkeepers are honest and re- 
spectable — have pews in church, 
and have two gowns, and every 
thing tidy and comfortable. 

Peter Funk is a gentleman of 
extensive connections, and has 
establishments in various parts 
of the city besides Chatham street 
and Lower Broadway. You may 
find the red flag of Peter Funk- 
ism flying in Pearl-street and 
other "heavy" quarters, where 
it is generally supposed that 
transactions are bona fide and 
dealers responsible. There are 
pinchbeck and glass beads in 
many other kinds of goods be- 
sides watches and breastpins. 
The comity merchant, who buys 
from a sample, and takes the 
" invoice" measurement, (forged 
in tlie back office,} is frequently 
amazed upon opening his bales, 
to discover that he has bought a 
pig in the poke — that his spleen- 
did English prints have become 
metamorphosed into cheap do- 
mestics, and that his woad-dyed 
French broadcloth smells horri- 
bly of logwood. In truth, the 
whole auction system, although 
theie are of course individual 
exceptions, is false and hollow, 
conduct«d upon a urong basis, 
and depending for its profits 
upon the shrewdness of those,,- 
who sell and the gullibility of 
those who buy. 

• The au^animation of the mock auctions is complete, and each shop is the 
centre of a conspiracy against the pockets of the community, requiring sis 
or eight accomplices to carry on business successfully. Besides the auc- 
tioneer and liis clerk there are the outdoors, who always attend the sale 
and bid on every thing that is offered — making bargains by the score, each 




looted by GOOI^IC 



1 MOCK AUCTIONS. 



35 



one of which, according to their own story, ought to enrich them. Men 
are employed by the day to stand outside the counter to act as false bid- 
ders. We have seen men in the mock-auction rooms in Broadway within 
the last few days, whom we have known to be engaged in the samC' busi- 
ness for ten years. They are generally men of middle age and of honest 
looks. Then there is the " respectable jeweler" round the comer or across 
the way, to whom the doubtful or hesitating are referred as to the genuine- 
ness of the article for sale, and who is always ready to give a favorable 
answer. This is done, too, very safely ; for in the case of a gold watch, 
for instance,' the Peter Funk, whom Mr. Greenhorn takes to be a rival bid- 
der, takes you to the jeweler and exhibits a real gold watch for his inspec- 
tion. The verdict is of course favorable; and, on the way back, the 
watches are dexterously exchanged in the outside pocket of the Funk, 
and you go on bidding for what you now suppose you jbiojo to be a genuine 
lever, Tobias make, full jewelled. So with the article* of jewelry — pencils, 
rings, breastpins, necklai-es ic &t The whole arrangement is perfect 
and such an air of earnest ess and smcerjtv is presened by the access 
paces on the outside of tl e counter that in ine\penencpd itr n^e ii not 



fail to be taken 

But the peculiar feature f tl 
is, that the poor dupe ne i 1 
many articles he is buying F 
the auctioneer holds up a card 




s business 

containing 
r two of small articles and asks, 
" How much a-piece, gentlemen for these 
splendid gold pencil-ca.ses \ei h&u} and 
warranted eighteen carats Tl l, last of an 
immense stock from a Broadway sfabli'ih 
ment, just become bankrupt ind sold un 
der the orders of the Sheriff How much 
for these magnifieenl pencil breastp ns 
and bracelets?" The Funks male a small 
bid, which he receives with i virtuous mdig 
nation, and perhaps vefitures to inquire 

whether they thmk the articles wei ■stolen Upoi thi n Iher Funk 
bids a higher sum, and the greenhorn becin to Th. no thit 1 ere is indeed 
a chance for a splendid bar^-un \t length 1 e bids ^nd h s laf e is 
sealed. After playing him a 1 ttle as Triuk Forrester would play d 
own goes the hammer ind the fortunate purchaser who sup 
poses he has bid off tno d zen articles is taken into the btek room to 
retile and receive his goods Here \a immune e bos of all sorts f trash 
rom a pair of scissors to a shirt b its is produced and he leims to 
his consternation, that he Ins purchased even or eight bundled pieces 
at twenty-five cents a piece , ind a bill for a couple of hundred dol 

■ i presented to him. If he remonstrates, the clerk is inflexible ; 
and if he attempts to leave the place, he is forcibly withheld— a Funk 
is called in, who passes himself off for an officer, and he is threatened 
with immediate arrest for "obtaining goods under false pretences." 
Alarmed and dumbfounded, he pays over all the money he has about Jiini, 
"'■■' -a kindly permitted to take his purchase — leaving his watch in pledge 

■■" "'■" ■■"' ■" settle the balance of the bill. With his load of 



that he will return a 



tedLyCotJl^lC 



36 NEW YORK IN SLICES 

rubbisi tied up in his pocket-handkerchief, he makes his escape ; and, en- 
tering the first jeweller's shop he encounters, is politely told, with a well- 
bred shrug of pity, that his whole cargo isn't worth five dollars. But then 
the lesson he has learned, if he only knows how to profit by it, will stand 
him well in stead for the money he has thrown away. 

Let all strangers remember, once for all, that there is no establishment 
in the city where real watches and valuable jewelry are sold at auction. 
Such goods have always a nearly fixed and intrinsic value ; and can neither 
be bought nor sold at any great reduction from the standard price. Who- 
ever ofters them thus-is a swindler or a thief. Either he has stolen what 
he sells, or else the articles he officers are nothing but paste and galvanized 
pewter, and are utterly worthless. By following this plain direction, the 
stranger in New York will save his money and avoid being obhged to re- 
gard himself as a fool and a spooney. 

If anybody would Uke to know why these shops are not suppressed by 
law, he must ask the " proper authorities" — if he can find them. It is 
none of our business. We expose the various devices which exist openly 
in the Metropolis, whose espress and only business it is to defraud the un- 
wary. If the authorities, who are perfectly cognizant of their existence, 
would do as much to suppress them, the evil would soon be abated. 

We hope, while on this subject, we shall be pardoned ior a few profit- 
able speculations — things not often made by editors of newspapers. While 
passing these mock-auction establishments, and wondering for the hundred- 
thousandth time at the gullibility of human nature, we have sometimes 
asked ourselves what would be the result if all the mock auctions in the 
community were at once to be exposed ? The sleek-fed proselytist with 
his mock reli^on; the virtuous lady leaving her splendid mansion "above 
Bleecker" to meet her paj-amour in Church-street; the respectable mer- 
chant or professional man spending his time and his income at the gam- 
bUng-house or the brothel; the demagogue dealing out his pernicious 
slang and mock patriotism to gaping fools ; the mercenary editor selling 
his columns to the interest or the institution that would pay him best ; the 
financier originating falsehoods to facilitate his extensive operations and 
swell his profits ; the painted harlot making merchandise of her mock 
blushes and impoisoned charms ; the lawyer selling his genius and learning 
to well-fed oppression — would it not be a sight worth seeing? and after 
contemplating it should we not be ready to exclaim, " The whole wOrld is 
but one vast Mock Auction I" 



(b.GoogIc 



THE INTELLIGENCE OFFICES. 



Slice IX— THE INTELLIGENCE OFFICES, 

You liave often, reader, as you have ridden by in an omnibus, or hurried 
along on foot, given a glance at the Intelligence Offices, crowded like a 
female mass-meeting, with women in outlandish, hot-looking dresses, as if 
they had been originally made for somebody else, and worn most perse- 
veringly out of season. If in the midst of Sammer, with the sweltering air 
full of fiery dust, and the sidewalk blistering your feet through your boot- 
soles, an intolerable glare of crimson and scarlet shawb, ribands, and faded 
bonnet-flowers, with a sultry sense of yellow calico past aJl endurance, is 
sure to issue from one of these places and stream clear across the street. 
Perhaps you may have wondered, for a moment, what was going on inside 
these dark and suffocating places, and hazarded a speculation as to who 
and what were all the women packed in there so closely. 

But in New York we have not much time for looking after what does not 
concern us, and still less for thinking about it. If you were to enter one of 
these dens where "intelligence" is peddled at half a dollar a dose, you 
would be struck wilt the diver^ty yet similarity of faces congregated there. 
Anxiety blended with stolidity, hope and disappointment, sagacity and un- 
mouthiness — ^these go to make up the face of the female immigrant. The 
unnatural and degrading position she occupies — ^forced to beg and even 
pay for the chance of being selected for somebody's domestic slave — sent 
all over the City, often on a fool's errand, and often to endure the vulgar 
insolence of some sister woman who happens to have a house and a hus- 
band, only to be told at last, m grating and harsh terms, that " she won't 
do," or her " references are not satisfactory," or " I don't like your looks," 
and to go back desponding and heart-broken to resume her seat on the pine 
bench of the Intelligence Office, until some other Mrs. Arrogance sends for 
a servant — such, day after day, is the fate of the poor immi^ant girl. 
Who can wonder that she thus in time becomes hardened and different, 
and that when at last she does get a place, and finds herself treated and 
spoken to rather as a dog than a human being, her stock of patience aud 
endurance gives out, and she determines to repay brutality with audacity, 
degradation with ill-humor, and oppression with h;fpocriay ? We hear loud 
complaints on all hands of the unfaithfulness and idleness of servants ; but 
we hare never yet known a woman who treated those under her manage- 
ment like human beings, having hearts and affections, and aspirations and 
sensibilities, who was ever robbed by her servants, deceived by them, or 
her household or children neglected. On the contrary, a httle common 
humanity sbown these poor, homeless, friendless creatures — a very little — 
rouses at once the strongest and most uncontrollable sentiment in the female 
heart— -gratitude — and they love you and all that belongs to you with a deep 
and self-sacrificing affection. If we but knew how far a little kindness and 
good-heartedness goes in alleviating the unhappiness of the children of 
, want and poverty, we might all be at least rich in our charities ! 

If you step in from the street — or rather down, for it is quite likely that 
we are going down cellar to pursue our investigations — you will see perched 



Hpsted by Google 



38 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

up beLind asort of desk or niiigisterial tribune, a smalJ, bald-headed man 
with piercing black eyes, or^e, ilabby iinder lip and sixty years, who pa- 
pears to be poring eonstaBtly over a lliin, dog-oared memorandum-boot, 
something of the form and general appearance of the " ledger" at a grocery 
and provision store on any comer. If you look more closely, however, you 
will perceive that the little man is every now and then gloating over his fe- 
male congregation with the eye of a dilettante sitter, letting his glance fall 
f™ !, mn™=„. i)e,.e „mi f^ere as it encountei-s some unusually young and 
■e or som^ swelling and elastic form. 




But here comes a customer — a portly and comely-looking matron, who 
has driven up in her carriage — (you can see it is not a cab, for the driver, 
although it is melting midsummer, wears a long drab-cloth surtout buttoned 
tightly to his chin and the shoddier covered nith six capes.) The lady 
herself is highly rouged and white-balled, and over-dressed to decided vd- 
garity. — But that is nothing — we have seen quite as slylish a turn-out in 
the front sofas of the Astor-place Opera, and there is no doubt that our 
customer belongs to the Upper Ten Tiiousand— as we shall probably ascer- 
tain by listening to their conversation. The keeper of *he den bows low aa 
she sails up to his desk, although a twinkle and a leer in bis malicious eyes 
belie this testimonial of respect. The lady speaks : 

" Have you any help you can recommend to-day, Teddy ?" 

" Yes, madam, I have a couple of delicate craythers there, just come 
over. But they are both Catholics, and you know how obstinate they are." 

" Never mind. Send them round this afternoon — No. ^st. you 

know. Mind and impress them with the ideii that they must look well to 
theii' references. I'm veiy particular, you know. Which ai'e they?" 

"Them in the coruer thei'e. Catharine and Jinny, come here, my dar- 
lings. Ye're in luck to-day. Here's a lady who will take both of you on 
trial, and if ye can bring good eJiOjacthers, and suit her well, ye may have 
easy work and good pay as long as iver ye like." 

" Yes — 1 want two steady, faithful, tru.stworthy girls — and for such I 



looted by Google 



THE INTELLIGENCE OFFICES. 39 

ara willing to pay the very highest wages. Call at live this afternoon ajid 
bring your references." 

Is it necessary to trace this infamous transaction any farther in detail? 
Eager to procure work, and delighted at the chance thus offered, the USN's- 
pecting girls go to (he honse des^ated, which we need not say is a place 
of assignation and prostitution, kept by the fine lady with the carnage. 
Here, after a proper preparation, during which -they are bewildered and 
eicited by the glowing promises and prospects held out by their eloquent 
mistress, they are introduced to two respectable elderly gentlemen — one a 
rich stock-broker from Wall-street, and the other a heavy importer in 
South-street, — both of course pillars of Society, exemplary husbands and 
fathers, and whose morality is as untarnished as their credit. If the poor 
l^rls, however, hesitate and struggle for their virtue — the only thing left them 
m the wide, di'eary world — a littfe elixir of a peculiar nature creates a tem- 
porary insanity, during which their ruin is completed, and tliey are made 
fiends against their wiU — sent out a_a ministers of death to make awful war 
upon that sex by whom they fell. " But they must be careful ! If they 
should happen to be caught in a row, or with a gentleman's purse in their 
fingers, they will be punished with all, the rigor of the law. But the re- 
sectable stock-broter and heavy importer, will they not be punished? 
Oh no — quite the contrary. They are ornaments of society, and are sup- 
posed to have made a hundred thousand dollars a-piece by the last steamer ! 
And the woman, the mistress of this horrible place, what will they do with 
her? Oh nothing. She pays her rent regularly, and has money in the 
back. The magistrates, too, are her fiiends, and she could tell a great 
many disagreeable secrets, if she were to be offended. It is the poor girla 
alone who suffer. 

Wise City Fathers! We tell you plainly that many of these "Intel- 
gence offices" are moral " fences," a thousand -times more dangerous, more 
pestiferous to Society, than all the ship-fever ever imported, and destroying 
by hundreds the souls and bodies of honest and innocent young women 
whose only desire is for work and bread, and who are lured into these infer- 
nal dens by the lying premises of their inhuman keepers. Look to it, 
and see if you can discover any of those hidden causes of the deep, damn- 
ing, and wide-spread licentiousness that is converting your beautiful City 
into a roor^ hell — a Gomorrah, deserving only to be consumed by the fire 
of Heaven. 

The ostensible business of many intelligence offices is mostly sham or im- 
position. The keepers generally do nothing for either employer or employed 
until they have been feed; and when the silver is fingered their interest in 
the matter, either way, ceases. Nine-tenths of the describable trouble, 
the disaster, the agony, of housekeepings in New York, which constitute 
such constant themes of eloijaent lamentation whenever two or three house- 
keepers meet, arise from the looie, dishonest Intelligence Office system. No 
careful housewife will ever apply a second time at an Intelligence Office 
for a servant. One lesson respecting the manner in which they fulfill the 
large and ample promises of their I'.dvenisemciits is quite sufficient ! If you 
leave a request for' a first-nito cook, you iire likely to be- sent a raw girl 
who has never in her life got farther in the culinary}- art than boifing potatoes 
with their jackets on, and who is na piofouudly ignorant of the mysteries of 
cooking a beef-steak as the editor of %h- '■ is of truth or decency. 



iby.Google 



40 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

And so of every thing else. You mi^ht as well expect to get the truth out 
of a politician, or charity from a niillionMre, as to procure what you are 
promised at an Intelligence Office. 

We do not mean to say that there ia not, here and there, an exception to 
our remarks, nor have we the slightest intention of designating individuals 
— that is the duty of the authorities, not of the press, — Our only purpose 
is to characterize and expose the iyslem. In a City like New York — the 
headquarters of an iraraigration that comes pouring from an old world to 
the new one by hundreds of thousands per annum — some hetl«r method of 
finding and distributing employment to the throngs of strangers should be 
adopted than the present inefficient and demoralizing one. Since it is 
neither possible nor desirable to arrest the course of immigration, our au- 
thorities ought at least to recognize officially this immense movement, and 
to provide ^nst as many of its evils as possible. A little investigation 
would enable them to do great good and to prevent gigantic evils and op- 
pressions, by adopting some simple and efficient mode of making honest 
employers and seekers for work acquainted with each other. We build 
costly custom-houses and employ hundreds of well-fed clerks to see that 
our importations of goods are all properly conducted-rr-while we leave our 
immense importations of human beings to fall a prey to every species of 
villain who chooses to pounce upon them. 



Slice X— THE MAKICETS. 

Most of our readers have doubtless had " slices" from the Markets be- 
fore now. But they furnish abundant mental food as well as physical, to 
one who has learned the grand secret of eating with his eyes. We scarcely 
know where so much and such varieties of human nature can be encountered 
as in a walk through the Markets. Every face you meet is a character, 
every scene affords a piquant contrast. Talk of your Eastern bazaars and 
Parisian arcades ! of your white-footed oriental gazelle and your brown- 
cheeked, mischief-colored goriest— your kirtled Albanian— by the way, will 
any man of veracity tell us what is a kirtle ?— and your kilted Highlander ! 
Why, they are the merest common-place people, place them side by side 
with the butcher-boy of the market ; the old huckster-woman who implores 
you in all weathers to buy her vegetables, although she has a handsome 
house at home and fifty thousand dollars out at interest, (we hope not in 
the Moonshine Insurance Company,) — the pretty, bare-armed girt who comes 
to buy breakfast for the mistress and must av. coorse have the best of every 
thing — the modest mechanic's wife, who surveys the aristocratic turkey and 
the lordly sirloin with a sigh, and then, with a timid glance at the little 
stock of change, is fam to put up with a lean joint for dear John's dinner. 
But then It will be cooked by her own fair hands, and she herself will shell 
the peas and boil the potatoes and dress the baby ; and if the mutton itself 



(by Google 



THE MARKETS. 41 

is a little toueh, her glance of love as her husband enters the door, will be 
BO tender, and will speak a heart so true, that handsome John will not m 
the stall-fed luxury that his earnings would not procure, while he owns 
much hearty happiness which wealth could not buy and the world cannot 
lake away. Whew ! what a sentence ! 

Then here is the dainty cit, his boots so nicely black, and his shirt-bosi 
so unimpeachably white. He knows the nicest tit-bits and the tenderest 
points in a steak or a roaster at a glance. He has almost an instinct in the 
selection of asparagus, and the cauliflowers he buys looks as if they were 
raised for him on purpose, in a special garden. Yonder rushes the Hotel- 
keeper, fearful] that somebody has brought something to market which he 
shall not see. He has but one ungratified wish ; if he could buy everi/ thing 
in market of a morning and tlien select a dinner at leisure ! What a bill of 
fare he would have ; and how he would invite the Editors to dine with him, 
and how he would get puffed in all the newspapers ! 

Yonder cornea creeping faintly along a thin, meager, sick old lady, meanly 
clad, and haggard from care and ansiety. She carries with difficulty a 
basket on her Hrm, in which she has already got s scraggy quarter of dark 
brown veal, a half-peck of peas, yellow as old maidenhood and hard as 
bullets — and two bunches of asparagus, looking like a pair of Irish bogs in 
miniature. She is now bargaining for some musty dried apples, which will 
be m due time converted mto pies for the people. That — could you mistake 
her for a moment ? — that is the Private Boarding-house Keeper. She rents 
a large house in Dash-st., which is described in ber advertisement in the 
Daily Tribune, as containing " genteel furnished apartments in a fashionable 
neighborhood." The parlor has a faded Brussels carpet, patched with in- 
grain ; half a dozen mahogany chair skeletons, a broken lounge, a rickety 
armchair with a piece of cotton netting spread carefully over the top, two 
ottomans as immutable as milestones from a defect in the underpinnings, 
and a piano of the time of Louis le Grand — although it is by no means a 
grand piano. She here •' takes in" young lawyers, dentists without extrac- 
tion, sub-editors, and shopkeepers just started in business, with a hired 
counter and show-window in Grand-street. 

The Markets of New York are justly celebrated for, the plenty and Va.- 
riety with which they are supplied at all seasons — the demands of the great 
metropolis brimming here producers of all sorts from a long distance, at- 
tracted by the brisk demand and high prices invariably created by the 
presence of any really good or superior article. In fresh Butter and Vege- 
tables even the western portion of New Jersey and the vicinity of Filled- 
phia itself are constant and large contributors. The west bank of the Dela- 
ware is said lo have been planted, near Philadelphia, by the Swedes, (who 
were the early settlers,) with a peculiar kind of grass, that imparts a rich 
and luscious flavor to the Butter produced there, whioh cannot be equalled 
elsewhere. Thus the shrewd Huckster, when butter in Philadelphia is 
worth but 23 or 25 cents per pound, buys up the choicest lots in that mar- 
ket and sends them to New York, where they are sure of a ready sale at 
almost any price that may be demanded. So with Berries and Fruits. The 
earliest Strawberries and the finest Peaches pass by Philadelphia and are 
sold in the New York market. In Poultry the Philadelphia trade is very 
extensive and lucrative. 

The Fish Markets are a very interesting feature of the New Tort Market 



'Ogle 



42 NEW YORK IN SLICES, 

System. No other point in the Union offers so great a variety of excellent 
Fish, from all longitudes and latitudes, and always at the eariiest moment 
at which they are accessible. From the plump and rosy Salmon of Port-' 
land to the piquant Pompion of Pensacola and the Green Turtle of the 
Keys, every species of substantial and rare Fish can he found in the Mar- 
kete of New York.' Tlie Green Lobster destined to be parboiled till he 
changes his politics, the spicy Shad, the noble Halibut and Rock, the Cat-, 
fish, tLe Perch, the Sea and Striped Bass, the fresh Mackerel and Cod, are 
always here in their ^season, and offered to the public in a cleanly and satis- 
factory manner. Indeed, Fish and Fishing, of all sorts, are carried on in 
New York upon the most extensive scak. 

The Meat Markets occupy the principal places in our Markets, and the 
stalls, being rented to private individuals, are kept emulously clean and 
wholesome. The Butchers are generally obliging and attentive ; although 
our duty compels us to'say that many rumors are afloat of distillery beef, 
premature death, &c. &c., which it gives ns a qualm in the stomach merely 
to think of. It id the best way, in all such cases, to believe as little as 
possible of what you hear — and therefore we believe nothing. The Butchers 
form a powerful and respectable body of citizens, and are thoroughly or- 
gainsaid into a Mutual Benefit Association, which regulates prices and en- 
forces its rules stnctly. There ate between sis and seven hundred regu- 
lar Butchers in the City ; and probably fewer unworthy members in the 
trade than in any other calling. They are among oar most quiet and amia- 
ble citizens, and are in no wise responsible for the goings-on of the " Butcher- 
boys," with whom they are often ignorantly confounded. Their trade is a 
thrifty and appears to be a wholesome one. Such a thing as a lean Butcher, 
or a Butcher in want, has never been heard of. 

The Poultry, Vegetable, Fruit, Butter, Cheese, and Egg Markets are all 
jumbled up together in most admired disorder, and are generally carried 
on by hucksters, who forestall the market by buying up large quantities of 
fresh articles, when they are low, and keeping tliem until a rise, when of 
course they are stale and unwholesome. This is the greatest evil connected 
with our Market System, and one which it is very surprising has not long 
ago been broken up. Very few producers come face to face with the con- 
sumers of their merchanijjse ; the Hucksters snapping up every thing valu- 
able, and then " taking their time" to turn it to the best advantage. In this 
way, the citizens pay from fifteen to fifty per cent, more than is received by 
the producer, besides being almost invariably served with a stale article. 
The immense Fruit and Berry trade, the Egg-trade, Butter, Cheese, &c., 
are the most subject to the Huckstering System. It is an application, in a 
small way, of the evils and costliness of the " Mercanljle System," and is a 
serious and constMit drain upon the purse as well as punishment to the 
piilate, and even to health itself. It is not likely that it will ever be put 
down- — ^but nobody can help wishing that it might be. ' 

On the whole, the Markets in New York, in their extent, conduct, and 
accommod.ations, are by no means equal to the wants or reputation of the 
City. A great and thorough movement on this subject will some day be 
started and carried out, which will give New York a Market, constructed 
upon modem principles, combining taste with utihty, and adding to the 
City what will be one of its greatest ornaments as well as blessings, 

A plan has always found favor with us — and has been several times al- 



.y Google 



THE B'HOYS. 43 

luded to in The Tribute — for creating a spacious and substantial market 
through the whole estent of Canal-st., cutting that splendid avenue through 
to the East Eiver, at its present width. This would be the most magnify- 
cent market in the world — central and convenient for all classes. The ad- 
vantages of a great central market running transversely across the Island 
will too readily suggest themselves to require being more than alluded to. 
New York in ten years from this day will be the first city of Th.» world— if 
not absolutely Va. population, yet in enterprise, taste, wealth, splendor, and 
public spirit. Within that time the whole upper part of the Island wilt be 
incrusted ivith Ijeautiful palaces and exquisite cottage residences, starting 
out or hiding modestly, like the fairy pictures one sees in dreams ; while 
the vast mart of trade, commerce, literature, and omnibuses, will h^ve crept 
gradually up Bi'oadway and alon^ either river, until our projected Canal-st. 
Market, stretched from the East River to the Hudson, would find itself in 
the centre of business and down-town. 

When these things come to pass — as they surely will — New York will 
be such a eity as the modem world has never seen, and will even then have 
but commenced upon its vigorous and promising childhood. Of its mature 
manhood who sbal! apeak ? 



Slice XI.-THE B'HOYS, 

A STRANGER might live a lifetime in New York without forming acquaint- 
ance with this extraordinary class of beings, or even seeing them, except in 
case of a general conflagration, or on their way to a target-shooting excur- 
aon, or a musical festival at Biddle's Grove, or a flotilla ball, or a torchlight 
procession, or sorae such peculiaj-ly New Yorkist turn-out And yet one can- 
not be said to really know New- York— to understand in what way its human 
nature is difl'erent from other human nature — without studying the habits 
and character of the B'hoy- It is true that we have recently had a reaper- 
sentation upon the stage of 1 pietended type of this extraordinary develop- 
ment of the social animal — and pre'.ented, too, in a likeness which ^1 
seemed readily enough to recognize But jet the portrait was a false one, 
andgave only the more conspicuous deformilJes of the character. Indeed, 
a mirror so foul and distorted is the modem stage could not be expected to 
reflect any thing but the obvious faults, vices, and barbarisms of whomsoever 
was brought before it ; and therefore it is that, while the B'hoy himself 
possesses many of the noble and truly manly attributes which go a-begging 
m genteel society, our Mose and Jakey and Sykesey of the stage are 
nothing more nor better .than absolute and umnitiga^ ruffians, whom to 
do any thing but loathe, would be in itself a sin.~The B'hoy, as we see him 
on the stage, is only in his out-door, midnight, rowdy aspect; and it is a 
lamentable thing enough that instead of endeavoring to elevate the shark- 
ter and stimulate the ambition of the spectators, by showing them one of 



ibyGoogIc 



44 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

themselves in his better phase, the getters-up of these execrable representa- 
tions should have gained a temporary popularity by brining out only the 
coarser and more vulgar traits, and thus enlisting the brutal sympathies and 
passions of their audiences. Many a half-timid young man, struggling be- 
tween the dictates of his better nature and the promptings of a depraved 
appeUte, lias been confirmed in vicious courses by witnessing and con- 
tributing to the applauses with which the beastly exuberance of " Mose" 
was received from the stage. 

It is in his domestic character and associations that the B'hoy commands 
most of our respect. Many of the roughest and most untamable specimens 
of these beings — who are first at a fray and ever ready for a feast or a 
frolic, a knock-down-and-drag-out— practise the social virtues with a sin- 
cerity and to an extent rare enough among classes of far higher pretensions 
and opportunities. Thrown into the world in childhood without guide or 
protector, and with no means of education, or worse still, no one to inspire 
in them the desu-e for education, they grow up like wild weeds and must 
inevitably produce bitter and' unwholesome fruit. And yet, in despite of this 
utter lack of culture and development, many of them become tender hus- 
bands, and, hke other wild animals, seem to reserve all the nobleness and 
susceptibility of their natures to lavish it upon their mates and oft'spring, 
while to all the rest of creation they show nothing but teeth and claws. — 
Another virtue owlish they possess in a high degree is friendship. Full of 
rough play, and uncouthly sociable as a company of young bears — often 
even quarrelling and fighting among themselves — yet let an enemy appear, 
or let a friend he threatened with danger, and they are devotion itself, 
freely risking life and limb in defense of a companion, and sharing with him 
when unfortunate their homo and purse, homely and scanty though they 
may be, with a natural and cordial hospitality which is the consecrated 
poetry of poverty. They are brave, easily led astray, but not naturally 
wicked. They are good, unselfish, frolicsome creatures, whose misfortune 
is that a rude contact with society, under unfavorable auspices, has served 
to ripen and bring out only a certain class of functions and attributes, while 
the intellectual and moral faculties which could alone have given them value 
or useful direction, have been repressed and stunted.. Thus, their courage 
is quarrelsomeness ; their frankness is vulgarity ; their magnanimity sub- 
sides to thriftlessness ; their fun expands to rowdyism ; their feeling of 
friendship and brotherhood seeks dangerous activity in mobs and gangs 
who conspire against the public peace 

The worst feature in the character of the B hoy is his dissipation — hi 
worst enemy the grog-shop, the thrct cent cellar, ot Th.& liquor-grocery o 
the corner. Deprived by position and finally by machination of respectable 
associations— and especially of the refining mfluence of cultivated female 
society — his restrained social instinct, his ambition, his desire to struggle 
and shme, which he shares ia common with all m*n and woman kind, lead 
him to the rum-shop and to the haunts of the iicious and the vile. Here 
he finds himself, from the audacity of his tempfer and the strength of his 
arm, an object of consideration and regard. His vanity is flattered and his 
appetites awakened, until he gladly embraces the career of vulgar rowdy- 
ism — simply because he must have some career, and there is no other with- 
in his reach. The writer of this sketch has been with the B'hoys, at many 
times and in many circumstances, determined to learn all that could be 



(b, Google 



* THE B'HOYS. 45 

learned by study and observation respecting a class of mankind so peculiar 
and so interesting ; and he does not hesitate to record his testimony in fa- 
vor of the goodness of their natures and the nobleness of their original 
capacities, while at the same time he admits and deplores the deg-radation 
into which most of them have fallen. Many of the coolest as well as most 
daring acts of courage during the late Mexican war were performed by these 
men, while at the same time their character for subordination, modesty, and 
temperance was unimpeachable. Now war is at best but a coarse, !ow 
master, and not much calculated to add dignity or refinement to the 
human character. But it teaches discipline, obedience, and punctuality, 
and discountenances bluster and disorder ; and even this was enough to 
greatly change the B'hoy from bad to better, and to show clearly of what, 
under still more favorable circumstances, he would be capable. Suppose, 
for instance, Government should take into its head one of these days to 
or^niae an army of Volunteer Agriculturists, under Genera! Skinner, and 
an efficient corps of oflScers from the American Institute instead of West 
Point — armed with hoes, rakes, scythes, and cradles, artilleries with ploughs 
and harrows, and furnished forth with a complement of cattle, seeds, and 
all necessary utensils, and ordered to the frontier to conquer a piece from 
the wilderness instead of the Mexicans — and suppose that every soldier in this 
grand army were permitted to take bia wife and children, or his sweetheart, 
and were given 'in fee simple a nice little farm, sufficient for aU the wants 
of himself and family — what a glorious chance would this be for the B'hoy ! 
and how much less national money and national crime it would cost, and 
how much happiness instead of death and mourning it would entail ! As 
soon as civilization arrives at years of discretion, and is able to see what ails 
it, we expect to see, in some such way as this, our cities purged of rowdy- 
ism, and the incentives to theft, robbery, and prostitution greatly abated, 
while at the same time clear swing and ample reward will be granted to 
Labor and Intelligence, and the coffers of the nation enriched by the crea- 
tion of new and prosperous communities, replenishing the granaries whence 
Europe must draw her sustenance, and consuming immense amounts of our 
own manufactures. 

But the B'hoy thinks little of his future destiny, and seems unconscious of 
any higher powers than those brought into p!ay by a race for a fire-plug or a 
scamper on the avenue. His strongest passion seems fun, and to its grati- 
fication even his rowdyism is made subservient. He revels in a spirit of 
broad, coarse humor, sparing nothing in its way, and finding its delight in 
bard knocks as well as droll conceits. A fight is a capital joke, and a 
crown is cracked as though it might be a conundrum. Even in the worst 
of times, when' spanners and brickbats fly thick as hail, and the blood of 
No. 42 is up so bigb that it escapes at the nose, there is as much fun as 
ferocity, and the affair is regarded rather as a frolic than a riot. It is true 
that such rough-and- tumble business might be considered by our dainty 
bloods in Broadway as somewhat too serjous for a joke ; but the B'hoys 
don't mean any harm by it. A good strong "muss" is the only safety- 
valve through which can escape their immense exuberance of animal spirits. 

If you would see the B'hoy, however, in his glory — at the top of his ca- 
reer — in the ne plus ultra of his mundane state — you must see him taking 
a drive with his G'hal on the avenues. Get out of the way, common peo- 
ple, and stand aside, slow nags, till the elephant passes. Who<)rah ! here 



(b, Google 



NRW YORK: IK SLICES. 



he cornea, shouting and einffbg with a sort of Titanic jollity, like Cyclops 
on a bender, and calling wiUa whip and voice upon his " crab" to " go it or 
break a leg \" — while Lizk, clinging to the seat with a death-grip in either 
hand, lowers her Bowery eut-water so as to present the smallest possible 
space to the atmosphere, and setting her teeth hard and bracing her feet 
firmly^ against the foot-board, is prepared for any emergency. Here every- 
body is on an equality, save that whoever has the fastest horse is the best 




!iin Tic insfoi-ritic dandy of the Opera, the sppndthntt clerk from 
front "itieet the flashy sporlmg-raan with his unimpeachable turn out all 
gT tlie lame load and appear upon the same level Social inequalities are 
like the avenue itself Mac-idamiaed — though much more evenly unless it 
Irns, mended its ways since I^t we rode over its dusty bolds until we got 
thoroughly sea sick Of a fine aftemoou it swii-ms with lentabh speci 
mens f the B hoy auayed in outre vest and funnel le^ed pantiw aud 
with an enormous crape band around the hat, on then way to Cato s or the 
Red House, or Stryker a Bay, or the High Bridge, or some other of the in- 
numerable -resorts of out-of-town visitants, with which the vicinity of New 
York is planted. 



looted by Google 



THE B'HOYS. 47 

Aflutter scene dear to the tendfir sensibilities of the B'hoy is the 
prize-fight — that most brutal exhibition of a degraded and bestialized hu- 
manity. Here the influence of the scene adds ferocity to every evil pro- 
pensity and sharpens depraved appetite with the scent of blood. — The 
influence of a prize-fight upon minds and characters thus prepared to receive 
its horrid teachings cannot he otherwise than fatal. The young rowdy, still 
retaining some faint glimmerings of that refinement which Nature bestows 
even upon her humblest children, will, on his first visit to a prize-fight, have 
all the good completely obliterated, and all the evil strengthened and con- 
firmed. The fierce excitement of human battle — the blood, the bravoea, 
the ambition, the dauntless courage mid contempt for pain and danger, and 
even life, which make up the elements of a prize-fight, leave their impress 
indelibly upon heart and brain, and are of themselves enough to stamp 
with heaven-defacing brutality the lineaments of the human soul that takes 
delight in them. From the prize-fighter's ring emanatea that bioody and 
bull-dog spirit which fills our streets with ruffians and disgraces civilization 
and the age with scenes and incidents worthy only of the savage in ha 
wilderness. And yet, these bloody outrages upon public decency and 
morality — these cattle-shows and premium fairs ©f human demonism — are 
permitted to be advertised week after week in some of the public papers, 
Mid to take place in the very suburbs of the metropolis, without any effi- 
cient step being taken by the authorities to put a stop to them. Not many 
years aco a young man was actually beaten to death in the ring and 
breathed- his last in the arms of his bottle-holder. It made quite a noise at 
the time, and we remember that the groggeriea and tiger dens in Park- 
place and Centre-street and Chatham-street ;md the'Sixth Ward generally 
were in quite a flutter for several hours. But they had no need. The 
papers stormed a little, the Police Office blustered a little, and that was all. 
In a few months after, a company of two or three hundred rowdies, having 
bragged of what they were about to do for weeks beforehand, embarked at 
midnight on the East River and crossed over to Connecticut, where the 
champions, surrounded by their partisans and friends, battered and bruised 
each other for sis or eight hours and returned to the City unmolested — 
with the exception of a trifling interruption by a Connecticut deacon, who 
soon got his spectacles smashed and was driven off the premises with a 
black eye and a flea in his ear. 

Now there is bo use, we suppose, of blowing up the authorities for not 
doing their plain and manifest duty in suppressing with the strong hand these 
and similar public wrongs ; but it appears certain that if they would bestir 
themselves and put down these prize-fights and fire-riots, and abolish 
three-quarters of the groceries and other vile haunts of rowdyism, the 
moral atmosphere would at once become purified, rdA the B'hoy— -whom 
we are now compelled to regard as the disgrace of the times — would he- 
come a cheerful, industrious, well-to-do, and valuable member of the com- 
amity.--But for aU these desirable mehorations we must wait the slow 
yet inevitable movement which civilization, amid many stumbles and baek- 
slidings, is yet ever making in an onward and upward direction. 



.y Google 



NEW YORK IN SLICES. 



Slice m— THE FIREMEN, 

It ia a very common, almost unnatural mistake, to suppose that the w.ord 
Fireman is synonymous with "rowdy." Because there are a few hundred 
of lawless boys and lazy " fancy-men," supported by their mistresses, who 
hang about the midnight oyster-cellars and three-cent groceries, and start 
at the first stroke of the fire-bell, or get up false alanna on purpose to have 
a " muss"-— or hang round the engine-houses, fighting and quarrelling with 
each other, and waylaying respectable females obliged to be out after dark 
— every one takes it for granted that the great body of Firemen are of a 
similar kidney. It is surprising to us that this extensive and pervading er- 
ror has not long before now been set right, and the public informed of that 
which is really the case — that the vast majority of the Firemen — those who 
really do the hard work and expose themselves to incredible hardships and 
dangers, without pay or any reward save the approval of their own con- 
sciences, in defending the lives and property of the community — are in fact 
worthy, hard-working citizens, and condemn with all their hearts the doings 
of then- reputed associates, which have so disgraced the City, and cast 
odium upon a noble and heroic class of men. We have made ourselves 
intimately acquainted, from personal observation, with the general character 
of our Firemen ; and we unhesitatingly pronounce them, in the main, as 
orderly, virtuous, and well-behaved a class of men as we have in h m 
munity. They regret, as much as any man can do, the character ad n 
duct of the rowdy gangs of discharged butcher-boys and underbr d Bel k 
legs who assume the red shirt of the Fireman in which to bully and Bel 
in safety, and whose highest ambition appears to be to live with w k 
and " run with the engine." 

These loafers are, for the most part, the " fancy-men" of certain Cyan n 
who receive their visits one day in the week, and supply them w h m n y 
from their own infamous and abhorrent traffic. 

These " lovyers," receiving thus from their mistresses a little m n y I 
at the butter-cake shops and lie basking in the sun or loafing at Th. m rs 
during the day. But, as soon as night comes on, they enter up n a n w 
life, . The holes and comers of the City are ransacked in search f ad n 
tures — some lie in ambuscade in the squares or remote quarters of h C y 
to pounce upon and rob unsuspecting passengers, or to insult, and ft n to 
outrage, in the most fiendish manner, such women as may pass. Th y e 
generally too cuwiing to become thieves, and refuse to run the r k f Th. 
State Prison for any thing less than a rape or a promising robber) N n 
tenths of these villains are red-hot politicians, and it is Th. y ha t to 
swell the almost incredible majorities in certain well-known w d nd d 
tricts — majorities which serve to keep the City Governm nt. f Th. ra t 
part in wrong hands, and to prevent the suppression of Th. gl g vil 
we have been delineating in these Numbers, by the unsp n nd h t 
execution of the laws. 

We doubt if a more desperate and reckless set of rase 1 uld b g Th. 
ered together in the puriieus of St. Giles or the Cite, than those Th. t f t 
New York. ProwLng about the darkest and filthiest quarters of the C ty 



(by Google 



carousing with the abandoned Five Pointesses at the groceries on the cor- 
ners, guthering at the gambling-house, spreading themselves over the town 
in seai-ch of desperate adventures, they form a regular cordon of -rascality 
through which It is worth a woman's honor or a man's life to penetrate, 
ihey are well known to the police, and commit wickedness enough every 
week to send them to the State Prison or the Penitentiary. Why then 
are they not arrested and their gangs broken up? Sage inquirer' You 
must have recently arrived from the country, or you would not have asked 
that question. These fellows can all vole, ay, not merely once, but twice 
or thrice, if necessary ; and they can also take possession of a poll and hold 
It all day— permitting none but their own friends to-approach. 

But the real Firemen, who do the hard work and say nothing about it 
are a very different set of men. For tht: most part engaged in honest call- 
ings—many of them being journeymen mechanics, some clerks or assistants 
in respectable establishments, or often master mechanics and proprietors — 
they are ever ready, m a quiet, prompt way, t« don the fire-cap and put 
their hands and, shoulders to the work of saving their neighbor's property 
—constantly performing feats of courage and daring that would make a 
hero of the battle-field hesitate, and exposing themselves to the most im- 
miDent peril, with a coolness that a knight of the crusades might envy 
We hope our readers have not forgotten the incident at the commencement 
of the great fire of 1845, when the store of Crocker & Warren exploded 
with saltpeter, (will saltpeter explode?) and blew the roof, upon which 
were two Firemen, entirely over another building, depositing it on the 
pound at some twenty yards' distance, without injury to the gallant fel- 
lows. It will also, we hope, be remembered that our relation of this inci- 
dent—clearly showing the advantages of holding on instead of jumpino' off 
—was rewarded with a hat, or rather "The Hat." That precious "and 
somewhat remarkable specimen of the wool manufacture of South Carolina 
IS not now m our possession— still is the incident as true as at the first mo- 
ment of its occurrence. 

Taldng it altogether, there is no doubt that the Fire Department of New 
Stork IS supenor m point of efficiency as well as in the respectability of its 
members, to that of any other city of the Union, with the exception, per- 
haps, of New Orleans, where the Fire Department is admirably organized 
and conducted. It is almost impossible to over-estimate the services or 
the importance of these men ; and we are ready to ovei-look, or to regard 
with leniency, such little irregularities as running upon the sidewalk, and 
making a httle extra noise, in view of the vast and unrequited services of 
the most arduous and hazardous description, which they are constantly 
caJled upon te perform. In Summer and Winter, by night and day, 
■whether it is the palace of the aristocrat or the hovel of poverty which is 
threatened by the most terrific enemy of hfe and property in cities, the 
gallant Firemen are ever readyat a moment's warning to rush to the rescue 
—to peril theff lives and expend their apparently inexhaustible strength 
aad energies for the protection of others. In comparison with the hard- 
ships and dangers, the toils and sacrifices, voluntarily encountered by the 
i iremen of New York, m the cause of humanity, the deeds of the proudest 
of our warlike legions who have lately been led mto a sister nation to bum 
and lay waste ite fan- dwellings and butcher its helpless citizens, sink inte 
insignificance, or are only remembered to inspire a just disdain. 



(by Google 




ba=ab,GoOglc 



THE NEEDLEWOMEN. gj 

paces paid for vanous kinds of needlework, at the principal and prosperous 
establishments. 

Common cotton shirts, and flannel under-shirts, sis cents each. A good 
seamstress can run np two of these shirts per day ; anii even a very swift 
hand, by working from sunrise to midnight, can m^e three ; being seventy- 
five cents per week for the common workers, and $1.12J for the outfit- 
est, of course allowing nothing for holidays, sickness, accidents, being out 
of work, cfec, &o. Good cotton, shirts, with Jinen bosoms, neatly stitched, 
are made for twenty-five cents apiece. A good seamstress will make one 
m a day, thus earning $1.50 per week, by constant labor. Fine hnen shirts 
with plaited bosoms, which cannot he made hy the very best hands short 
of fifteen to eighteen hours steady wick are paid fifty cents each in 
ordinary hand can make a garment of this kind m two daji= Tiowsers 
overalls, drawers, under-shirts & Ac pay a shdlmg apiece to the «eim 
stre-is, who can make oiie and perhaps, two a daj Cloth pantaloons, vests 
&o , pay eighteen to fifty cent= — ^ pry seldom the lattei price and a wo 
man makes, on the average about one a Aij Thus not to prolong these 
details, it may be stated, m a word thit the seamstress who is t.rtunate 
enough to get steady work eanis from seventy fiio cents to two dollars a 
week Besides these, it is necessary to state that the dressmaker or at 
any rate the great majority ot them get absolntelv nothing for the evoke 
The way it is managed is this 
the proprietora of the large dresa 
maung establishments rescue a ^^ 

great number of apprentice who - if 

remain six months for nothing *® '^ 

boarding themselves in the mean 
time, for the privilege of lemon 
the trade. They can already sew 
swiftly and well, or they are not 
accepted. To them are given out the diesses and they are kept cinstantly 
at work sewmg (not learning any thug jif w) untd the very daj before then 
apprenticeship espu-es. Then a few hour^ are spent m giung them s me 
general directions about cutting a dress, and they are discharged— there 
bemg no room for Joune^immune m wages in an establishment where all work 
IS done by apprmUeesfor mtking. As fast as their " education" is comple- 
ted they are replaced by other apprentices. And so it goes on ; the dash- 
ing propnetress of the establishment growing rich and aristocratic, and the 
poor girls turning out upon the world «. die of starvation and despair, or 
sell themselves to infamy. 

Here then are the facts respecting a large and mcreasing class of our fe- 
mi]p population ; and a sad enough picture they present. It is this picture 
wJiidi give rise a few days since to the following eloquent outburst of feel- 
ing from a lady of our acquaintance, of whom I was soliciting information r 
" Is It not tlic strangest thing that can well be conceived, that Woman, who 
bv the present constitution of society is made politically and socially a 
slave—who haa no voice in the government to which she submits, in ma- 
king the laws she is forced to obey— who is, in short not recoouised by any 
human institution of these days as an independent individual], or as any 
thing apart from the necessity Man has for using or abusing her—that she 
IB not, hke other slaves whose existence is merged in their masters, even 




bsted by Google 



52 



NEW YORK IN SLICES 



secured food, clothing, and shelter for the fleeting 'gleam beWeen two 
eten,ities' on which glide, byherpde and -£^-^S -PV^^^J^XIT^' 



TOm.D has indeed no rights ot her own. She can be oppressed, 
trampled upon, until the joyous life within her becomes a dead and poison- 
ous impulse that drives her "through the world eager for the grave, or stings 
her inti desperation and revenge. But how revenge her wrongs? She 
has no redress, neither in those laws she did not sanction, nor m that pub- 
lic opinion she cannot induenee, and which regards her not. Seemg this, 
her gentle and tender nature at length undergoes a change. Then the fee- 
ble Wmes the terrible; the weak and suffering Woman is transformed 
into an avenging demon. And who may wonder at her ? , , . , , 

In this grSal republican metropolis— this foregone result of the highest 
and host thing that evaluation can do, with all our boasted « free institu- 
tions in full bloom and life— there are thirty thousand virtuous women who 
have to live die and he buried on what they can earn with their hands. 
In the ranfa of this class of our population, we tod Woman in almost every 
aspect of misery, ever straggling, and faint with the burden of life. Wives 
anfi daughter, of broken-down merchants and speculating politicians form 
a large Item in this catalogue. Reduced from affluence to poverty and 
keen mnt, they are all unlearned m the great secret of yielding grece- 
tully to the inevitable, and maintain day by day a terce, unequal, but not 
doubtful contest with "cruel Fortune." untd they sink beneath temptation 
or despair— to the brothel or the grave 1 A majonty are borne up by 
pride alone fmm beggary, and the few who still calendar them among their 
acquaintances do not suspect to what strait they have been driven, untd 
the crisis arrives and is over. , . ,. . a 

Next come the widows of tradesmen and mechanics, the wives and 
daught«rs of those who cannot get employment, and the wives of sick and 
intemperate husbands, and the children of invalid or drunken parents. 
Here Ire to be found some ot the most patient and long-snffermg. starving, 
toiling, heart-broken, yet courageous women that ever glorified their Cre- 
ator. Here, in miserable open garrota, utterly deprived of limn hope and 
sympathy, and often knguid and faint from the mere want of food, these 
creatures show what angels women are. Sometimes— oh ! too often— lie 
selfishness of pain and suffering, or the brutal appetite of hunger and in- 
temperance, makes the sick father or the drunken mother eonimand the 
pale and tender daughter to go out into the streets, and sell herself for 
iold ' Must it not be a life resembling hell itself that begets such crimes 
Is this ? And how dare we wonder and shru| our shoulders with a pious 
sneer at those among these unfortunates who do not resist . 

Then, too, from out them workshop windows, through the chinks and 
crannies of their miserable lodgings, our poor workera see how gayly the 
busy and seeming-joyous world goes on— how every one appeate to have 
hope in his eye and elasticity in his step. Nor can they fad to mark among 
the passing throng many women not more beautiful than themselves— 
whoil perhaps they have well known as fellow-workers— who go haunt- 
ing idly along in gay and costly robes, receiving the stealthy smiles and ad- 
migration of the lords of creation, who follow skulking after till they turn 
down some dark corner, and with the outlay of a smile and a seductive 
word secure their victim. They want for nothing— they live in luxury— 
then white hands look fair and delicate from want of employment— thenr 



THE NEEDLEWOMEN. 53 

eyes seem to sparkle with health, and their forms are rounded and elastic 
with generous fare and absence of toil. Is it surprising that our poor 
workers, lolling out from their rags and squalid poverty and starvation 
upon all this, should forget (what perhaps they have never been informed 
of) the horror, the agony, the despair, the disease, the madness, which are 
the inevitable future of the courtesan ? and that too many of them should, 
alas ! desire to be like her ? 

But we are trenching upon somewhat broader ground than we had in- 
tended to occupy in these unpretending sketches, and find ourselves in con- 
tact with that great and terrible question, the Causes of Prostitution — a 
question which none has yet had the courage to answer. Our object is 
simply to present a correct view of a large and unfortunate class of females, 
surrounded with all the trials and temptations which beset them— -leaving 
the reader to draw bis own conclusions. Having done this, with what little 
power of pon-liraning we passers, we will take advantage of the occasion 
to solemnly warn young women in the country agents indulging for an 
instant the fatal desire of coming to the Oity to seek their fortunes by labor. 
If they could, as we have done, attend day after day the bar of the Police 
Court, or read the secret docket of the innumerable cases of heart- 
brokenness, desolation, and crime that there appear, or hear from their own 
lips the history of the wretched creatures who people the innumerable dens 
of infamy that abound in the metropolis, they would learn this one fright- 
ful truth, — that more than half the prostitutes and female criminals in the 
city came here from the country to earn a Hving in some honest way, and 
to gratify an innocent longing for a little female finery, and a passion to " see 
the world." The sad story is evei-, ever the same : first destitution, then 
absolute want and hunger, then turned out of doors, houseless and home- 
less, or offered the dreadful alternative of prostitution. Young Woman ! — 
if you are indeed a real Woman, and no innate demon assuming an- 
gelic form of purity the better to carry on hell's work on earth — ^mark 
well our warning ! Stay calmly where you are, beneath your own pui-e 
skies, and amid the virtuous freshness of your home, no matter how hum- 
ble it may be. Work, spin, dig, till the soil — do any thing virtuous that 
will earn you bread, and mere bread is not so very difficult to get in the 
country ! But as you value your moral purity, and the welfare of your 
immortal soul, come not into the city, to lose yourself in the boiling, seeth- 
ing caldron of ' licentiousness that rages forever here. If you have an 
intellect too active to be satisfied with the duL routine of a country life, 
read and improve your mind by study, and mature your heart by contem- 
plation. If you have aspirations for the beautiful, surround yourself with 
flowers, and teach bii-ds and gentle creatures to be your playmates and 
companions ; endear yourself to all the little children in the neighborhood : 
conceive the grand and noble ambition, the only one worthy of Woman's 
soul, of I'endering yourself- necessary to your fellow- creatures, within the 
natural reach of your sphere, and of adding something to the beauty of 
this beautiful earth, of which God has made you the brightest and most 
precious blessing. Thus may you, poor and humble though you he, fill 
your life with a gentle joy that shall bring health and happiness to cheek 
and eyes, and surround your innocent pillow with celestial dreams. 



(b, Google 



NEW YORK IN SLICES. 



Slice IIV.-THE PRESS. 

Having made oil will and got our 
life insured for a sum sufficient to 
keep our wife and family in comfort- 
able circurnatancea after our depart- 

at the Presa, Right or wrong, yoong 
or old handsome or ugly, they shall 
all tarrier the field of onr peo-and- 
ink daguerreotype — aidelicil, fools- 
cap But aoft — here cornea the rnag- 
nificent nose of our friend Major Noah 
lOund the corner. Doubtless hia jolly 
face «:ll shortly follow ; and when it, 
and the burly, Santa Claus>Iike body 
which It crowns, shall have pceaented 
themselves to full view, jba will see 
selfish good-niture and jolly indiffer- 
e personified. The Major never 
1 younger than at present — al- 
igh liis reputation was. In the 
L good oid sleepy daya when he ac- 
I quired a comfortable fame by his 
] brusque sallies in the New York In' 
' qutTer and his neat twinkling in 
Eienmg Star, journalism in America 
waa not the absorbing, remorseless, 
clamorous thing it has become, and a 
man's brain spread but on a respecta- 
, g , bly-sized sheet of paper to dry, re- 

ceived some what more of respect than 
a green hide sunning in the Swamp. Then expresses were unheard of, and tele- 
graphs were unary stall iied from the lightning's blue and fiery film — then a happy 
thought or a happy face were things cherished and recognized by a sedate and 
unhurried world. But now ail this is changed. The iittle peaceful brook, along 
whose murmuring hanks our friend Noah used to go idling — now stealing a ahi- 
ning pebble and now plucking a pretty wild-flowet — has become a roaring and 
raging river ; while Ihe bewildered Major, leaping from knoll to,knoll, as the we- 
ters encompassed hini, hia barely escaped with life, and sits out of sight upon a 
woody bank, hopelessly waiting for the rude stream to run by, that he may re- 
sume hia old occupations. 

Step softly hither and look gingerly through this glass-door — whom do 
yoii sec? A small, exquisitely biult man, with a head sweUing out at the 
temples like an oriental dome — a glorious place to dream in — and an < _ 
restless with the flashing and untamable light of genius, yet apparently 
subdued to temperate beaming by the sheer power of aa overmastering will. 
That ia Wiluam Cullbn Bryant — the best lyric poet of his land and age ; 
the superior of Cowper in gra^e and fervor ; of Thomson in naturalness 
and simplicity ; of Wordsworth in music and dignity. Yet, with the guer- 
don of an immortality bright as the stars, within the sweep of his pen-arm, 
he sits there at one comer of a deal table literally heaped into a mountain 
of newspapers, uncut books, unread communications, and all the accun 




(b, Google 



THE PRESS. 55 

lated rubbish of an Editor's table, writing no Hymn to the Nortt Star, but 
an appeal to Northern voters ; no Thanatopsis, but a poetical thumper for 
the Evening Post. Awake, man, awake ! The Philistines are upon thee ! 
Let us see once more the flash of thy pen, and hear the musical thunders 
which follow ! — While there are good, ten score who can beat thee all to 
pieces at political lying, if thou wilt but assume thine__ own immortal lyre, 
the world shall be mute to listen. 

Let us climb these dark and tortuous star — almost as twisted as the 
course of the journal below— -and look in upon this surly, reepectablc-lgok- 
ing old gentleman figuring up election returns at a table furnished with a 
case of httle drawers, each labelled with the name of a State. In these 
drawers, neatly scissored, lie the political statistics of each State few many 
years back. Whatever may he thought of the iutertwistificationa of the 
editorial department of the Journal of Commerce, Mr. Hallock's figures 
are almost as accurate and reliable as Mr. Greeley's'. 

In yonder elegant mansion, where Beauty and Wit and Fashion haye 
made their home, sits in his elegant study the surviving SfBrit of Lang & 
Turner's Gazette — who, wisely perceiving that it was ebb-tide with the for- 
tunes of the Gazette, and that the respectable old craft would inevitably be 
left ligh and dry, while all the world went out t« sea, had the courage to 
leap back at once into his old profession, in which he has become the pioneer 
to what he considers vast and momentous discoveries. The representative 
of an old and exploded phase of Journalism, has now become the active 
and enthusiastic exponent of Young Phyyc. Few remember, when they 
meet his benevolent face, that he was once nothing but an Editor; and w 
hope to be pardoned for thus recalling himself to his remembrance. 

Another up-stairs journey — having found our way down to the level of 
Wall-street — will conduct us to the " Editors' Room of the Crier <£■ S-n- 
guider. One Colonel is of course out of ton, another-^ bland, Bennett- 
lent-looking gentleman of the old school — is seated on one side of & long, 
dingy table, hammering out a Money Article. Opposite sits a frail, pale, 
student-like man, boring into the organ erf Causality wilt the forefinger of 
his left hand, and scratching away fearfully at a political leader, which is to 
abolish at a blow Mr. Van Buren, The Tribune and Free Soil, and send 
General Taylor into the White House by Telegraph. A noticeable young 
man is this— who by the power of a bitter, unrelenting, unrelaxing industry, 
has made himself, against nature and his own inclination, a Politician and a 
Journalist in the space of time usually occupied by young men in getting 
ready to learn. 

But we must leave daguerreotyping to another day, and say something in 
the general about a most interesting and ill-understood class of the commu- 
nity—the regular journeymen Dally Journalists. In any other city of the 
United States the newspapers are pretty much all alike — apparently run in 
the same mould, printed on the same paper, with the same type, and having 
a sort of homogeneous physiognomy, which betrays their origin the instant 
they are pealed. In New York, however, the Press has as many idiocy- 
crasies as journals, and each sheet possesses an individual and well-defined 
existence, scarcely resembling, ia its general features, any of its neighbors. 
One of the most striking peculiarities of the New York journalist is, that he 
is able to appreciate and assimilate himself with these peculiarities, and to 
ante in turn for all the papers without once forgetting himself or com- 



(b.GoogIc 



56 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

promising the character of the columns to which he happens to he ood- 
tributing. Talk of the power of abstraction and individualization in Sliak- 
speare — what is it, compared with the same power as manifested by the 
accomplished New York joimialist? It was comparatively easy to put 
appropriate words into the mouths of Miranda, and Prospero, and Hamlet, 
and Cleopatra ; but suppose your Shakespeare had been called upon to ham- 
mer out a leader for the Courier <& inquirer on Monday ; condense an al- 
manac for the Journal of Commerce on Tuesday ; revolutionize Cuba for the 
Sun on Wednesday; prove in the True Sun of Tliursday that Martjn 
Van Buren was no Democrat ; conduct the country through a " tremendous 
crisis" in the Herald on Friday, and correct all the blunders of the Express 
for The Tribune on Saturday — to say notiiing of spinning out half a dozen 
yards of gntta pereha for the Evening Post, making homy observations on 
the state of the mercury for the Commercial, and treating the^ subscribers 
of the Evening Mirror to mock turtle with their muffins — what think you 
the world would have ever heard of the Bard of Avon ? And yet there 
are at least half a hundred journalists " attached to the press" of New 
York, any one of whom could do all this, besides finding time, at odd spells, 
to contribute a couple of columns to the Sunday Dash, write a love-story 
for the Sky-blue Magazine, carry on a daily coiTespondence with two or 
three papers at the South or West, and get up a prize tragedy or a satiric 
poem, according to the state of the market. Indeed the amount and Va.- 
riety of intellectual and phy^cal labor performed by a thorough-bred New 
York journalist is unparalleled and incredible. 

If we attempted to classify the journalists, we should simply divide them 
as they do almonds and Baptists at the South, into hard-shelled and soft- 
shelled. The former know how to make the most of their position : the 
latter allow their good-nature too often to run away with their interest as 
well as their judgment — and might as well have no pockets. 

As a general thing, the habite of the Journalist are veir regular — he 
being regularly employed till two o'clock in the morning, and rising at l«n 
the next day to breakfast on hard eggs and cold biscuit. As to " domestic 
felicity," "keeping wholesome hours," and all that sort of thing, he has 
read of them, to be sure ; but so he has of the diamond valley in Sinbad — 
and that's all he ever knows about them. His wife and children get per- 
haps a glimpse of him, for the first time in the week, on Saturday morning- 
provided the foreign steamer doesn't {which it generally does) happen to 
arrive on that day. His brain, from the effects of constant pumping and 
squeezing, is very much in the condition of a well-sucked orange ; through 
which dribbles an ocean of the highly -concentrated f ssence of old-newspaper, 
in " one weak, washy, everlasting flood." Law, cookery, political and moral 
ethics, engineering, war, watermelons, tremendous squashes and farmers' 
clubs, daguerreotypes, washing-machines — are all legitimate subjects of his 
pen ; and some of the finest things he does are upon the incalculable 
advantages of the baby-jumper and the danger of a national debt. Phy- 
sic, architecture, music and millinery, are also topics upon which he is 
completely at home ; and as to reviewing hooks, clairvoyance is no touch 

If a new notability from Europe arrives in the City he had better, as 
soon as possible, put himself on good terms with the hard-shelled journal- 
ists. For, talk as we will of the want of influence of the journal and jour- 



t looted by Google 



THE PRESS. 57 

nalisfs ivlio practise the depleting system upon strangers, yet it is unique- 
tonally true that the sUghts and sneers, or even the silence, of those papers 
which are mostly devoted to affairs of theatres, concerts, and public shows of 
all sorts, are so serions a drawback upon the success of any artist, that we 
have nerer known but one (Mr. Macready) to work his way against them. 
A dishonest journalist is the most active and virulent of minaret poisons, 
whose venom circulates from the brain (the Press) to the remotest extreme- 
ties of the social system ; and it follows, on strictly homeopathic principles, 
that nothing but a metallic remedy can prove an efficient antidote. Thus 
far, we believe, gold has been tried with unwavering success ; and contrary 
to the sister ptinciple established hy Hahnemann, that the smaller the dose 
the more certain the cure, it has been ascertained, in the most marked eases 
of malignant journalism, the larger the amount of the golden remedy ex- 
hibited, the more rapid and satisfactory were the effects. We have known 
a patient who had reached the last stag* of vituperation and actually foamed 
at the mouth, to be cured by this medicine in a single day. 

Your soft-shelled journalist, now, is much more easily managed. A pri- 
vate dinner and plenty of champagne at the Hotel de Paris or at Delmoni- 
co's, with a liberal allowance of extra tickets, are generally sufficient; or, if 
there is a lady in the case, an established footing at the morning levies and 
the entrie of the green-room will generally be quite sufficient. The soft- 
Shelled journalist is of a good heart and is easily delighted. If a perform- 
ance is not every thing that might be wished, he conveniently remembers 
that " Art in America is but in its infancy ;" and if an unsuccessful engage- 
ment has been crowned with a meager farewell benefit, the soft-shelled duly 
informs the town in the morning that " an audience, although not very nu- 
merous, yet unusually fashionable and intelligent, testified their dehght," 

All this, we are aware, is not entirely creditable to the profession of 
journalism — nor do we mean to say that there are not exceptions to what 
we have been portraying. But the general accuracy of our limning, as pa- 
plied to a majority of the subordinates upon the Daily Press, will be recog- 
nised by all who are familiar with the subject. Nor are the journalists 
themselves so much to blame for this; much of it is owing to a false sys- 
tem — or perhaps is an incurable incident of the" profession itself. The wri- 
ters for the press, as a class, are men of refined tastes, costly ambitions, and 
high intellectual endowments — they must be so. They are also generally 
well married, to women of breeding, and partaking largely of the universal 
female desire to shine. Now, what is the scribbler with his expensive pa- 
petites and his extravagant family, to do upon his modest salary ? True, 
with economy it would support his family in comfort and respectability. 
But he is daily obliged to mingle with men of large incomes — politicians, 
merchants, professionals, and gentlemen — and his position gives him admis- 
Mon lo a rank in society far above him in point of money, but probably as 
much below him m every other respect. If he is shrewd and mercenary, 
he knows how to sell his influence to the best advantage, and to reap solid 
benefits from his labors : if merely conscientious and good-natured, he ac- 
cepts, almost unconsciously, such slight alleviations of the social isolation 
in which his barren income places him, as tickets to places of public amuse- 
ment, and now and then a good dinner, can afford. 

The truth is, then, that by the system on which the Press is at present 



(b, Google 



58 NEW YORK IN SLICES 

conducted, the journalist is hardly treated, considering the character of his 
labors and the requirements necessary for him to possess. There is no pro- 
fession in society whah demands such peculiar, such diversified. such almost 
universal natural endowments, and noiie requiring so much experience and 
■arduous and incessant lahor ; nor is there any that is, comparatively speak- 
ing, so poorly rewarded. This state of things is the consequence of a mu- 
tual error between employer and writer. The former, if he could see his 
own best interests, would not hesitate to remunerate his writers in such a 
manner as would enable every one employed upon his journal to devote the 
entire of his time and energies there and nowhere else — to support himself 
and his family in decency and without embarrassment, and to avoid all the 
humiliating shifts to which he is now obliged to resort to keep his head 
above water. An establishment would thus be surrounded with an intel- 
lacteal cordon that would render it impregnable to the rivalry of new enter- 
prises, and which would impart daily new force and momentum to it, and 
confer upon it that substantial consistency which most journals in this coun- 
try so greatly lack. On the other hand, the journalists themselves, by com- 
Benton and mutual good understanding, might aggrandize iheir position 
without doing mjuatice to employers ; might grapple with Fortune by the 
arms instead of hanging on by the eyelids, and convert their occupation 
from a precarious struggle for bread into the most noble,\the most worthy, 
and the most useful of the professions. At the same time they should team 
to reform many of the bad habits which they have insensibly acquired — to 
set a proper value upon money — to repress extravagance either in them- 
selves or families — and to avoid, as a pestilence, cebt, that gnlf in which so 
many high-spirited and intellectual men have lost third footing and floun- 
dered and straggled through a disgusting existence. 



Slice Xy.— THE LITERARY SOIREES. 

Hush ! Open the door softly, after you have smoothed your hair with a 
pocket-comb which you purchased yesterday at " a cent a pair" of the little 
girl in Park-row, and adjusted your cravat by the httle mirror which Leary 
has ingeniously inserted in your hat-crown. Step in gingerly and make 
your respects noiselessly to the smiling hostess, lest you interrupt what is 
going on in the front parlor, where a dozen distinguished-looking men and 
twice as many women, whom the veriest greenhorn would at once set down 
as leaders of the Bas Bleu, are gathered in a somewhat picturesque group, 
listening to a tall, deaconry man who stands between two candles held by 
a couple of sticks summoned 'from the recesses of the back-parlor, reading 
a basketful of gilt-edged notes. It ia the Saturday night aft«r the I4th of 
February, and this is the annual Valentine Party, to which all the male and 
female authors have contributed for the purpose of saying on paper charm- 
ing things of each other, and at which, for a few hours, all are gratified 



(by Google 



THE LITERACY SOIREES. 59 

with the full meed of that praise which a cold world is so chary of bestow- 
ing upon its literary-cobweb spinners. The gentleman to whom has been 
delegated the task of reading these delicate effusions is a stalwart, middle- 
^ed, puritanical-looking personage, who reads with a clear voice and pure 
intonation, but with a sort of inflexible solidity, beneath which the filagree, 
verses seem to bend and writhe as if on the point of snapping into annihilate- 
tion. He has been selected on account of his classical accent and the re- 
freshing distinctness of his articulation. All that is wanting is that the 
thought-sc^padrona of Milton, bristling with the chmn-armor of genius and 
inspiration, should be issuing from out the missive portal of his lips, instead 
of this light holiday procession of dapper fancies, of which he almost seems 
to be ashamed. This worthy knight of St. Valentine is our friend, the 
getter-up of innumerable things for the annuals and magazines, and the 
leading editor of the the bitterest and most relent- 
less of the extant organs of Conservatism. Mr. ■ — — - is a man of great 
intellectual strength, but it is muscular rather than nervous, ponderous ra- 
ther than apprehensive. He looks steadily but in one direction, while the 
whole world sails by and disappears behind him. He is the oarsman who 
never sees aught but what he iias passed over. The future (we don't mean 
in another world) is a blank to him. He goes little into society, and spends 
most of his time at home or at the office, engaged arduously in the duties 
of his profession. He has betrayed ia his writings little of that electric 
force of genius which beamed from the canvas of his ■painter- brother Henry 
— but if he is never great he is always respectable, imd never descends to 
mere puerility. 

Stalking about with an immense quarto volume under his arm, (it is an 
early copy of his forthcoming "Female Poeto of America,") is a thin, ner- 
vous man, his gray eyes looking shyly about like a girl's, and his mouth 
twitching every now and then, with the conception of a new biography. 
He carries his head wonderingly upon his shoulder, as if there were a good 
deal in it — and so there is ; for his room in the University is crammed full 
of books, and he bas managed somehow to absorb the contents of most of 
them into his own braiiL In literary topography he is a peripatetic gaia't- 
teer. He knows when ever book or other intellectual bantling in America 
was bom, who was its father, (or mother,) how old it was when it died, 
how many teeth it had„and of what money or other effects it died possess- 
ed. He is as familiar with tbc pedigree of every tyro and blue- stocking, 
from the Fredoniad down, as a Vit^inia turfman with that of his stable. 
His memory is a miscellaneous storehouse of celebrities of whom nobody 
has ever beard, and of great poetesses who didn't know how to make dum- 
plings. He is the most unselfish of mortals, and has dwelt so much amid 
the excellences and perfections of others that he scarcelyretains cognizance 
of his own identity. Yet is he, by nature, the equal and the superior of 
many whom his protection has warmed into vitality. Ho is a poet of no 
mean powers, a critic of fine taste and appreciation, although a great deal 
too good-natured, and a logician of very respectable calibre. Besides these, 
he is something of an orator and a good deal of a rhetorician ; and we have 
heard of people being profitably exercised under the influence of his "stated 



If his books are neither perfect nor strictly impartial, yet tbey are incom- 
panoply the best of the kind that have been produced; and it is entirely 



bade, Google 







Sill 


■ 




i 




1 


^fc 


M 


W 


Wi 


T| 


^^ 


IB^ 


m 


^S 


^^^ 


W 


^^1 


^^^H 




W) 




^p 


p^ 



(b, Google 



THE LITERARY SOIREES 61 

through them that a host of American writers are known in Europe, who 
would otherwise have been unheard of. Wliatever may be thought of the 
critical justice of Dr. Griswold, we cannot deny tilt his labor's have been 
of incalculable benefit to tlio Literature and Literary Men of his country, 
and that they form the only accessible or reliable authority respecting a 
good deal of our national intellectual development. 

On the sofa, with 'his plump, handsome feet piled up on the footstool, 
and his round face illuminated by a pair of green spectacles, above which 
rises rather conceitedly and knowingly a capacious brow, buttressed by two 
very respectable organs of ideality, sits a gentleman Esteeming earnestly to 
the reading of the Valentines, fearful lest, by some unaccountable mishap, 
he should have been overlooked. Beside him is a handsome, intellectual- 
looking young man, evidently of tlie old aristocratic Knickerbocker blood, 
who seems to be watching for the Valentine quite as intently as bis com- 
panion. He, however, has no misgiving — he knows it will come — for he 
wrote it himself, lest his friend should be fot^otten. These two personages 
are in some respects remarkable. Both are men of high intellectual powers 
— one of them entirely ambitious and ready to dispute his rights on the in- 
stant with any rival or pretender ; the other as entirely and eminently un- 
selfish — thinking ever only of his friend and how best to pi-omote his inter- 
ests and advance his fame. They are the Castor and Pollux of literature— 
the Gemini of the literary Zodiac— the Damon and Pythias of the drama of 
real life. One of them has produced books which have at least been read, 
and have furthermore received the compliment of being heartily abused. 
The other does not write books, but he is a dehcate appreciator of the 
books of others, and for a Cretan kind of amiable and tender criticism has 
no rival. Both these men — for they are never apart — form a work in two 
volumes well worth the studying. 

But a polka has struck up in the next room, and we will take a look at 
the dancers. Here is a sunny-faced, smiling gentleman, who don't look as 
if the Ink-Fiend had ever heard of him, standing up with a demure lady 
who has evidently spilled tlie inkstand over her dress and then had it dyed, 
so that it should be ali one color. The gentleman cannot stand still, but 
capera and prances about with (in exuberance of animal spirits like a racer 
before the drum beats. At length the rime comes ; and, shaking his head 
like a Newfoundland dog about to leap into the water, away he plunges, 
carrying his partner with him into the dismaying depths of the dance and 
fairly trampling time out' of the music and kicking it into eternity — while 
his merry and infectious laugh lights up the room with mirth. By-and-by, 
when the dance is over, he will take you into the wine-room, and tell you 
confidentially a side-shaking anecdote, which will make its appearance in 
the " Gossip" of next month's KmckerhocJcer. A joyous, happier spirit 
is he ; and, bating a little unnatural bitterness towards Puffer Hopkins, one 
of the best-natured, best-hearted, and capitalest fellows in existence. We 
do not dare to mention his name, for fear of offending his modesty ; but if 
anybody should ask you what kind of a man is Lewis Gaylord Ciark, 
you may show him this paragraph for your answer, and ymi'll not be far 
out of the way. 

The ladies 'are scattered all about as thick as stars ; yet we do not know 
how to approach them. There is the stately Mrs. Sbba Smith, bending 
aristocratically over the centre-table, and talking in a bright, cold, steady 



(by Google 



62 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

Bloom. like an antique fountain bj moonligl)ti and yonder, nestled under 
a light Bbawl ot heraldic device., like • bird e.capod from its wee, and 
already longing to get back again, is the spiritual and dainty Fim Os- 
Goon, clapping her hands and crowing like a baby. Kext her sits, as quiet 

as a pet lamb the sedate and handsome Mrs , her tender blue eyes 

humid with the hght of some brilliant fancy she has just been caging If 
•he wm not m Borne, yon might see on the opposite side of the table. 
Miss 1 iiLUH her large gmy eyes lamping inspiration, and her thin Quito- 
ing hp prophesying Ike a Pythoness. Yonder by the fireplace sits the 
dark-ej-ed and pootio-faced G.ton GaeENWoon, talking earnestly, and 
casting bright glances of lambent defiance around her, as- it she loved yet 
eonlsemned everybody. Behind her, in a low armchair, which sways gen- 
tly to a half-murmured tune, sits the heart and soul of tenderness and op- 
etry, in the plump and temporal person of Lyoia Maria CAI. She never 
leaves her own retreat, and sings ever loudest and sweetest from her nest 
It IS strange that we should have encountered her here amid tins gay pa- 
rade ot beauty and distinction. , Though well deserving place anywhere by 
virtue of the depth and parity of her genius, her fervid and o'crmasteiini 
worship of the Beautiful, and the sincerity and classic shnplioity of her 
soul, yet she all too seldom strays from home, and seems even now to be 
uneasy and restless, as if she fancied the r»om about to compress and fiat- 
ten everybody in ill^-and she detests fiat people. 

Among such a party as this it may well be imagined that conversation 
flows and sparkles mcessantly, and that eleven o'clock (the hour for break- 
ing up) comes unbrdden, une.vpected, and unwelcome, and without any one 
having noticed the absence of those stores of eatables and drinkables with 
vvbich some parties attempt to uneven or beguile their immitigable dulness 
Our company drops ofl^ one by one, without formal leave-takings, and with- 
out creating the slightest confusion. Notwithstanding that all these peo- 
ple spend then- lives m endeavoring to attract the attention of the public 
yet Tetley is not one of tliem who wouldn't shrink in dismay from the idea 
ot creating a sensation in a drawing-room. Between the confidence of the 
author and the self-possessed assurance of the man or woman of fashion 
there is a space which is seldom passed over ; and it is true as a general 
thing, that artists and authors are in private life distinguished for nothing 
but a met and reserved demeanor. 

These weekly literary retsinas, of which during the -Winter season there 
are hree or four every week among tie different literary coteries, are a 
peculiarly of New York society, which h,» not been imitated elsewhere to 
any considerable extent— simply because the materials are wanting New 
lort, a. the grand intellectual focus ot the country, is the point S which 
concentrate the wandering rays of genius from all quarters ; and our fash- 
ionable anions will soon outvie oven those of Paris and London in the num- 
ber and quantity of the choice spirits who congregate within them. It is 
■ this whidi adds Ihehnnl embellishment and imparls the crowning charm 
» New York society—which sets a seal of unapproachable value, and con- 
tert. ifndfflcnbable force upon New York public opinion, before whose dicta 
the mmd and mteUect of the whole country unconsciously bow. It is true 
that a cerium bitterness and eiclnsivencss of sectarianism prevail in som^ 
Mher cities, whose inhabitants seem to tliink it an imperative duty to decry 
New York. But they deceive themselves as to the fact,; Thei jealousy 

iiosteJhCf)«l^lc 



THE OMNIBUSES. gig 

and ill-will are not returned by New York. Slie can t^ord to appreciate 
and admire every thing and everybcniy of eminence or excellence ; and the 
absorbing process by wbicb a new man or a new beauty instantly becomes 
merged, like a drop of new rain ia the river-^ave, is entirely unconscious 
to herself, and arises solely from her own inherent elements of power and 
greatness. In Civilization every powerful nation must have one intellect- 
tual centre, as every individual must have a brain, whose motions and con- 

ct.^iptjons govern the entire system. In tbe United States, New Yoi-k is 

thai' centre and that brain. 



Slice IVl— THE OMNIBUSES.' 

LfjuBGiNO at our ease in spacious carriages, and reclining on luxurious 
velvet cushions, we arc whirled at will up and down the length and breadth 
o£ the City — now dashing through Broadway, half dislocating our necks ia 
trying to get a sight of the gaudy panorama of the " two-shiliing side," 
or endeavoring to get a peep through the interlacing tree-tops at the City 
Hall clock. Anon we go rattling up Chatham-street and the Bowery, at a 
killing pace, — especially jf there be any small children or "slow" pedestrian- 
ans in the way — or undulate away through East Broadway into the quieter 
and cleanlier realms of drab and sober propriety — or jumping into a Kipp 
& Brown, win our way by gentle " stages" to Greenwich and Abingdon- 
Place — and all this for absolutely six and a quarter cents a ride. No coach- 
house, no horses and coachmen to provide for — no waiting foryour carriage 
to come to the door — no bills for feed and fodder — many-caped surtouts 
with bright buttons, — and all the perplexing et ceteras, by means of which 
■unfortunate rich people are compelled to buy their locomotion. It ia true, 
that itt the enjoyment of our beautiful Carriage for the Million, we are 
sometimes, especially in a sudden shower, or just after the locking-up of 
Wall-street, apt to be soinewhat conveniently crowded ; and no regular 
omnibus-rider is without his' established list of complaints against whatever 
ime he havens to be patronizing. The Knickerbocker creeps, the Empire 
races, the Waverley always takes in a regiment of children, the Twenty- 
third-street stops at every corner. And so the Grumbler — ^who will always 
grumble. Jet what will come of it, and who would grumble if be were go- 
ing to be hanged — still is not thwarted of his grumbling by the considerate 
omnibus. 

But how few of us, who save annually so many hundred furlongs cf 
weary walking, and so many pounds of costly sole-leather, by the omnibus, 
ever pause to think of what a blessing we are enjoying, or to ask ourselves 
the unansweraBle question. How should we get along without them ? It is 
true that the now -and -then intermission of a route, for 3 few days, by rea- 
son of fire or other calamity, sets the town to thinking, and we have imme- 
diate ways and means set afoot in all feasible- modes, to assist in re-estab- 



i by Google 



64 



NEW YORK IN SLICES. 



lishing the missing utility. Cheerfully we pay a shilling a ride, for a whole 
day, and never onoe prolong our walk for tlie purpose of evading the extra 
sixpence, when we know that the fund is to go to the benefit of the bumt- 
out omnibus concern. Our young gentlemen who live on " the western side 
of the City," purchase theatre-tickets at five dollars apiece to rebuild the 
Chelsea stages, and thus preserve their patent-leathers. Then it ia that we 
learn to look upon omnibuses in their tme light, of a beneficent institutio 




in the profits and advantages of which the public have infinitely the better 
of the proprietor. Then it is that ladies who live " a good piece uptown," 
and whose husbands have not yet discovered a gold-mine, become sensible 
of the inestimable advantage of this cushioned economy in transmitting 
them, unrubpled and unsoiled with travel, to the heart of heartless Broad- 
way, to butterfly it of sunny afternoons. Then, too, weary bankers and 
jaded speculators have leisure, as they jostle home to a cold dinner, and 
disconsolately read in tbe^Evening Tribune that Fancies have fallen, when 
thoy should, according to the leader of the Courier and Enqairer, have gone 
up, to reflect upon the reason they have for being thankful that the Krack- 
Rebecca line is still " going up— right up" — and that they are not com- 
pelled to walk the shine from their boots, and the last ray of endurance 
from their hearts, ere they can ring at their own door-bells. 

Would you like to tnow something of the Statistics of Omnibuses ? 
You shall be gratified. We have here in New York three hundred and 
fifty of tliese locomotive conveniences, coming into the City from every 
avenue, and all concentrating in the funnel-spout of Broadway below the 



(by Google 



THE OMNIBUSES. 



65 



Parli. You pick your teeth on tlie Astor House steps, and see, on an av.- 
erage, fifteen omnibuses pass each way, every minute, and for the greater 
part of the day, all full. Each stage makes ten trips a day, and takes in 
an average of twenty passengers, up and down. Here are 70,000 six- 
pence.*, or four thousand three hundred and seventy-five dollai-s per day, 
paid for omnibus riding in the City of New York — amounting'r to over a 
million and a quarter per annum. How these sixpences count up when 
added together by thousands ! 

There is plenty of philosophy in omnibus-riding, if you have but the wit 
to find it out. The omnibus is an excellent school for studying human na- 
ture, besides being (in the present state of Broadway) an almost sovereign 
remedy for the dyspepsia. Each division of the day has its dislinclive 
class of omnibus-riders. In the early morning, before the slumbering dust 
has found its wings, and while the fresh sunlight streams m losy C09lne3s 
over the many-dreaming city, the omnibus is chiefly occupied by junior 
clerks with big iron keys in their hands, or laborers with tin kettles be- 
tween their feet, on their way to their down-town a\oeafjons All le per- 
fect equality in the early omnibus. The clerk of Jones, Smith, Blowup & 
Co. is not a whit bigger man than the pi'osperous Luis bmlder in his 
straw hat and Ume-colored blouse. Each pulse the strap and pa\a his aii- 
pieta with the same air of absolute independence and equality. The dis- 
tinction between ouvrier and bourgeois, if it exist at all, does not reach the 
sunrise omnibus. If there be an aristocrat about the establishment it is 
unquestionably the driver. 

Later in the mo.ming creep out, one by one, the sleek and rotund bur- 
ghers of Above Bleecker, who stand imposingly half-way down their palace- 
steps, and wave theJr hand with ludicrously majestic motion as the inevita- 
ble vehicle heaves insight. Their linen, how white! the puliali on their 
boots, how unimpeachable ! the 
cheap nod and economic smile 
with which they statelily greet 
each other, as rivals meet upon 
the yielding sofa, and st^te the 
fact that it is a fine morning — 
Low indescribably descriptive of 
the race of whom they are but 
isolated types ! And then when 
they pull up at Pine or Cedar 
or Wall-street, they never con- 
descend to even look "season" 
at the driver, but swing open 
the door as if it were the en- 
trance to their own magnificent 
dining-room, and descend cau- 
tiously picking their way to the 
sidewalk, with a dainty, three ( 
per cent, a month dignity, quite 
awful to behold. 

After these — and not long 
after them, either — come the 
fluttering morning robes and 




looted byGoOgIc 



ee NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

thick green veils of Gotliam's fair wives and daughters, on theu" various er- 
rands — aU muffled inscrutably from sight, and as careful of bein^ seen as the 
inmates of the harem. It would he so vulgar to be caught m Broadway 
in the morning ! The strap is delicately prea'ed by the smallest hand 
in the world, in a ravishing brown thread glove, th.tt cUngs m pure lovo 
to the exquisite proportions it does not conceal ; and they disappear upon 
their various errands — one to visit her milliner or dressmaker, to see ev- 
ery thing in tariff for the coming party ; another to the dentist, to woik 
concealment of tlie ravages of time and hard tooth -brushes, those moths 
of woman's smilingness ; some to seek slippers, some bouquet'-, some to 
cheapen calicoes, and some to buy. 

But midday is here ; and with it comes the poor man's dinner hour, — 
and, weary with work, right glad is he to rest and nde half an hour for a 
hard-earned but blithely-spent sixpence. And now the tide of travel, 
which since morning has been ebbing strongly towards the sea, begins to 
set landward. Soon the brokers and merchants, those who have not duied 
at Brown's, begin their homeward journey, and are followed by a gradu- 
ally increasing crowd of all occupations, until at sundown it becomes a 
throng, and you cannot procure a seat — not even a standing- place on the 

steps — anywhere above the Bowling Green Fountain, we had almost 

said — for love nor money. , 

After this grand supper-time rush, comes a calm, when the foot-passen- 
ger almost begins to flatter himself that he is to escape utter deafness , 
and we next see our friends the omnibus-drivers, with then- huge machines 
drawn up in extempore barricades across the street at the doors of the 
theatres and concerts, patiently waiting, on the stage without, the move- 
ments of the stage within, smoking their cigars and each other m boister- 
ous good-nature, and cracking their jokes and whiplashes with the same 
unceasing perseverance. Thus they linger far into the night, and at length 
straggle along up Broadway, one by one, keeping a keen look out for strag- 
glers on foot, on either side of the way, and making the midnight nog at 
every «onter with their " Broadway — right up !" and the sharp crackle of 
the whip. 



Slice IVII.— THE EATINe-HOUSES, 

' ' Bcefsl eakandtat«rs vegetdbesnumhertwenty — In_;twhardandsparrowgras3- 
numbersixteen !" "Waiter! Waiter! Wa-t-tbh!". " Comingsir"-— while 
the rascal's going as fast as he can ! "Is that beef killed for my porter- 
house steik I ordered last week?" " Ready minister, comingsir, ndreklysir 
— twonsispence, biledamand cabbage shillin, Riceland sixpence, eighteen- 
pence— -at the batf you please — lobshiucensammingnumberfour — yes sir !" 
Imagine a continuous stream of such sounds as these, about the size of the 
Croton river, flowing through the banks of clattering plates and clashing 



(by Google 



THE EATING-HOUSES 



67 



tnivesand forks, perfumed with the steam from a mammoth kitchen, roast- 
ing, boiling, baking, frying, beneath the floor — crowds of animals -with a 
pair of jaws apiece, wagging in emulation of the one wielded with such ter- 
rific effect by Samson — and the Th. m t wl ich has become ashamed 
of itself and hides away behind a ta f h f in the corner, melting up 

by degrees to boiling heat— and y u II 1 me notion of a New York 

eating-hoitae. We once vinderto k t mt tl se establishments in the 
lower part of the City, hnt got rf. t d tl mell of fried grease be- 
fore we got half through the first t t d iv obliged to go home in a 
cab. We believe, however, that there can t be less than a hundred of them 
within half a mile of the Exchange. They are too important a " slice" of 
New York to be overlooked, and strangers who stop curiosity -hunting after 
they have climbed the big clock-case at the head of Wall-street, haven't 
seen half the sights. 

A New York eating-house at high tide is a scene which would well re- 
pay the labors of an antiquarian or a panoramist, if its spirit and details 
could be but half preserved. Every thing is done differently in New York 
from anywhere felse — but in eating the difference is niore striking than in 
any other brani* of human economy. A thorough-bred diner- down- town 
will look at a bill of fare, order his dinner, bolt it and himself, and be en- 
gaged in putting off a lot of goods upon a greenhorn, while you are get- 
ting your napkin fixed over your nankeens {we think the cotton article 
preferable) and deciding whether you wiH take ox-tail or raock-turtle. A 
regular down-towner surveys the titchen with his nose as he comes up-stairs 
-^selects his dish by intuition, and swallows it by steam and the electro- 
galvanic battery. As to digesting it, that is none of his business. He has 
paid all liabilities to his stbmacb, and that is all he knows or cares about 
the matter. The stomach must manage its own affairs — he is not in that 

Not less than thirty thousand persons engaged in mercantile or finMioial 
affairs, dine at eating-houses every day. The work commences punctually 
at twelve ; and from that hour mitil three or four the havoc ' ' 



incessant. Taylor at Buena V^ta was nothing to it. They sweep evwy 
thing — not a fragment is left. The fare is generally had enough — not 
nearly equal to that which the cook at the Home above Bleecker saves for 
the beggars, (generally her own thirteen cousins, "just come over.") It is 
really wonderful how men of refined tastes and pampered habits, who at 
home are as fastidious as luxury and a delicate appetite can make them, find 
it in their hearts — or stomachs either — to gorge such disgusting masses of 
stringy meat and tepid vegetables, and to go about theh business again 
under the fond delusion that they have dined. But "custom," they say, 
does wonders ; and it seems that the fear of losing it makes our merchant- 
princes willing to put up with and put down warm swill in lieu of soap, 
perspiring joints for delicate entrees, and com meal and molasses instead of 
meringues a la Erin d, la rose. 

There are three distinct classes of eating-houses, and each has its model 
or type, Linn£eus would probably classify them as Sweenyorom, Browni- 
Vera, and Delraonican. The SweenyMum is but an extension downward 
of the Browniverous, which we have already described. The chief differ- 
ence to be noted between the two is, that while at Browa's the waiters 
eatery do pass by you within hail now and then, at Sweeney's no such 



(by Google 



gg NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

phenomenon ever by any possibility occurs. The room is !md out like the 
floor of a. church, with tables and benches for four, in place of pewa. 
Along, the aisles (of Greece, if you judge by the smell) are ranged at 
" stated" intervals,, the attentive waiters, who receive the dishes, smiill plate 
suspense, large piate shiilin, as they are cut off by the man at the helm, 
and distribute them on either side, with surprising dexterity and precision. 
Sometimes a nice bit of rosegoose, tender, may be seen flying down the 
dsle. without its original wings, followed closely in playful sport by a small 
plate bilebeef, vegetables, until both arrive at their destination ; when goose 
leaps lightly in front of a poet of the Sunday press, who ordered it proba- 
bly through a commendable preference for a brother of the quill ; while 
the fat and lazy beef dumps itself down with perfect resignation before the 
"monstrous jaws" of one of the b'boys, who has just come from a fire m 
49th-street, and is hungry, some! 

At Brown's we get a bill of fare, with the " extras" all honestly marked 
off and priced at the margin. 'But at Sweeney's we save our sixpence and 
dispense with superfluities. The bill of fare is delivered by a man at the 
door, regularly engaged for that purpose, and is as follows : 



BiledlamanqaperBors. 
Eoeebeofroaegoorose mutton a iitatera 
BiledamancabbagD, vegetable — . 
WalkiDBirtakasealsir. 



This is certainly clear and distinct as General Taylor's political opinions, 
and does away with a great deal of lying in print, to which bills of fare as 
well as newspapers are too much addicted. The Sweeney, or sixpenny cut, 
b frequented by a more diversified set of customers than either of the 
others. It is not impossible to see, here. Professor Bush dining cheek-by- 
jowl with a hod-man off duty, nor to Snd a blackleg from Park-row seated 
opposite the police-officer whose manifest destiny it will be one of these 
days to take him to quod — unless he should happen to have money enough 
about him to pay for being let go. The editor, the author, the young 
lawyer, the publisher, the icorcream man round the comer, the poor phy- 
sician on his way to patients who don't pay, the young student of divinity 
learning humility at six shillings a week ; the journeyman printer on a bat- 
ter, and afraid to go home to his wife before he gets sober ; in short, all 
classes who go to make up the great middle stripe of population, con- 
centrate and commingle at Sweeney's. Yet all these varied elements never 
effervesce into any thing in the slightest degree resembling a disturbance ; 
for eating is a serious business — especially when you have but sixpence and 
no idea whether the next one has been coined. 

It is true that Sweeney's "is emphatically a sixpenny eating-house"- 
but you must take care what you are about, or yon may as well have dined 
at the Astor, — Unless you know how it is done, you will be nicely dc " 
yourself. If you indulge in a second piece of bread, a pickle, a bit of chee 
&o,, &c., your bill will be summed up to you something after this fashion : — 
" Chimsoup sixpence, rosebeef large, shilln, roastchikn eighteen, extra bread 
three, butter sixpence, pickle sixpence, pun sixpence, cheese three, claret 
(logwood and water aluminized) two shilln — seven shilln," If you wish to 



(by Google 



THE EATING-HOUSES. qq 

dine cheaply, be contented with a cheap dinner.. Call simply for a small ■ 
plate of roast beef mixed, (this means mashed turnips and potatoes i» equal 
quantities.) After you have eaten this frugal dish, — and it is as much as 
any one really needs for dinner, — you may send for " bread, hard," drink a 
tumbler of cool Croton, pay one shilling for the whole, and go about your 
busin 1 k a f h d and sensible man. 

Th til n ther class of eating-houses, which deserve honorable 

menti — Hi \ ad coffee shops, of which " Butter-cake Dick's" is a 
favo!'abl mpl — The chief merit of these establishments is that they are 
kept p all ht nd that hungry Editors or belated idlers can get a 
plate f b u L w Th. lump of butter in the belly for three cents, and a 
cup of ft f a much more— or he can regale himself on pumpkin pie 
at four cents the quarter- section, with a cup of Croton, fresh from the hy- 
drant, gratis. The principal supporters of Chese luxurious establishments, 
however, are the firemen and the upper circles of the newsboys, who have 
made a good business during the day, or have succeeded in pnmmeling ^ 
some smaller boy and taking his pennies from him. Here, ranged on 
wooden benches, the. butter-cakes and coffee spread ostentatiously before 
them, and their intelligent faces supported in the crotch of their joined 
hands, these autocrats of the press, and the b'hoys, discuss the grave 
questions as to whether Fourteen was at the fire in Front-street first, or 
whether it is all gas. Here also are decided in advance the relative merits 
and speed of the boats entered for the next regatta, and points of great 
pith and moment in the science of the Ring are definitively settled. As 
midnight comes and passes, the firemen, those children of the dark, gather 
from unimaginable places, and soon a panorama of red shirts and brown 
faces lines the walls and fills the w.hole area of the little Cellar. They are 
generally far more moderate than politicians and less noisy than gentlemen. 
At the first tingle of the fire-bell they leap like crouching greyhounds, and 
are in an instant darting through the street towards their respective engine- 
houses — whence they emerge drag^nag their ponderous machines behind 
them, ready to work like Titans all night and all day, exposing themselves 
to every peril of life and limb, and performing incredible feats of daring 
strength, to save the property of people who know nothing about them, 
care nothing for them, and perhaps will scarcely take the trouble to thank 
them. 

But of all this by itself. The type of eating-house of which we have cot 
spoken is the expensive and aristocratic restaurant of which Delmonico's is 
the only complete specimen in the United States— and this, we have it on 
the authority of travelled epicures, is equal in every respect, in its pa- 
ointments and attendance as well as the quality and execution of its 
dishes, to any similar establishment in Paris itself. We have not left our- 
selves room in this number to speak in detail of this famous restaurant, 
nor of its habitues. It well deserves, however, a separate notice ; and a look 
through its well-filled yet not crowded saloons, and into its admirable eukine 
will enable us to pass an hour very profitably — besides obtaining a dinner 
which, as a work of art, ranks with a picture by Huntingdon, a poem by 
Willis, or a statue by Powers — a dinner which is not merely a quantity of 
food deposited in the stomach, but is in every sense and to all the senses 
a great work of ari 



tlo.teJb/GoOl^lc 



NEW YORK IN SLICES 



Slice XVIK.— THE EATING-HOUSES. No. 2. 

Some persons who eat — and they form a pretty large portion of the 
community— may have experienced a shudder of horror at the freedom 
with Tvhicli we sliced up the Eating-Houses. As if we were not at liberty 
to make free with an old friend ! Why, we have lived, man and boy, some- 
thing over a quarter of a century at the down-town Eating-Houses-— heing 
in the habit <rf. breakfasting at Lovejoy's, dining at Brown's, and taking our 
t«a and biscuit at Sweeney's. But a picture is a picture ; and in order to 
give the reader or spectator a correct idea of the subject under treatment, 
it is necessary to dash in the light and shade with a free hand, Oat 
portraiture b as common-place as — as — the National Academy; while an 
artistic representation relieves the mind of the material lumber which op- 
presses it, and presents nothing but the abstract picture to the eye. Wheth- 
er we possess the faculty of painting such a picture or not,* does not depend 
on the Eating-Houses — they are as economical and as indispensable as ever. 

And now, since we are at the confessional, we are willing to admit that 
the Eating-Houses are immensely valuable. New York could no more exist 
without her Eating-Houses, Uian you, reader, could get along without your 
atomach. In the Winter, when the days are as short as pie-crust, and one 
has scarcely time to get to his counting-house before it is time to shut up, 
what business could be transacted, if the fifty thousand people who do 
business down-town were obliged to go home for theiiflinners ? The pro- 
gress of trade and population has driven the dwelling-houses all so far up- 
town, that if it were not for the Eating-Houses, one meal a day would be 
all that a business man would have any right to expect. Now, he carries 
on till a favorable lull occurs — an eddy in the Vast count'-current that is 
bearing him on to fortune — and slipping jjuietly out to Brown's or the Al- 
derman's, refreshes the inward man, and is back again in ten minutes, ready 
to sen'G a customer, or make out a bill. Consider that this is done by at 
least fifty thousand every day in New York, and you will be able to begin 
to calculate the immense amount of time saved to the mercantile and busi- 
ness community by the Eating-Houses. 

If the Eating-Houses are so useful in Winter, they become absolutely 
indispensable in Summer. The thrifty merchant or tradesman sends hia ' 
wife and children to hoard in some cool and sequestered place in the vicin- 
ity of the «ily (and surely nothing can compare with the facilities of New 
Ttork in this resj ect ) and where he can join them every evening after the 
business of the day is o\er Biit all through the hot and glaring day, he 
must be in town \?orking, working, working. What would he do without 
the Eating Houses ' Whj , literally, he must starve ! And then, what 
would become of his wife and children? Horrible thought ! 

Indeed upon taking a cool and calm view of the matter, we are inclined 
to bekve that notwithstanding their steaming-rooms and thin soups, it is 
to the Eitmg Houses that New York is in a great measure indebted for 
that continuous rush ot commercial activity around her great business 
centres which so strike^fly distinguishes her from all other cities. Her 



ogle 



THE EATING-HOUSES. 71 

geogtaphicaj position doubtless contributes also to this ; bat without the 
Eating-Houses, situated right in the heart of trade, and providing abundant 
and wholesome meals at a cost absolutely nothing to a besieges man, com- 
pared with the value of ten minutes' time in the middle of the day, neither 
the mere geographical position, nor the immense pressure of trade, would 
produce that inexhaustible glow of excitement, that ceaseless whirl of ac- 
tivity, which keeps the wine of life continually effervescing and sending off 
sparks wid scintillations which imbue the very atmosphere with a vital and 
intoxicating essence — the pungent perfume of gold. 

In such estensive establishments as the New York Eating-Houses, con- 
ducted with such incredible celerity, and dining hflngry men by the regi- 
ment, some "noise and confusion" are absolutely indispensable. Juatthink 
of it — two or three thousand people going up and down the same stairs, 
and dining at the same tables, within three hours ! Such a scene cannot 
be iraa^ned hy say but a New Yca-ker. Nowhere else, either in Europe 
or Araeiica, does any thing like it exist. It is the culmination, the consum- 
mfttjon, the concentration of Americanism ; with all its activity, perceive- 
rance, energy, and practicality in their highest state of development. In 
this view the Eating-Houses of New York rise to the dignity of a national 
institution, and are well worth the most observant analysis. 

As a mere branch of business, too, the Eating-Houses are far from being 
nnwMthj of attention. We could point to more than one splendid fortune, 
'more than one magnificent residence "above Bleecker," graced with the 
presence of some of the most beautiful and most accomplished of the Up- 
per Ten, which have arisen from the honest earnings of the Eating-House, 
and whose founder began life as the- humble commbswy of cakes and coffee 
to the mercantile and business men of New York. And ao habituated 
have some of these men become to active employment, that their well- 
loaded counter, surrounded with happy and hungry customers, has become 
a necessary excitement; so that they may he seen any day from twelve to 
three o'clock arrayed in spotless white apron, and, knife and fork in hand, 
serving out roast beef, plum pudding, and lobster salad, seasoned with cer- 
tain standing jokes, which grow better every year, to their less wealthy 
and less aristocratic customers — while their wives and daughters, lounging 
gracefully on velvet ottomans, beneath damask curtains, in the aristocratic 
palace up-town, gravely discuss the delicate questions whose decision is to 
give laws to the world of Wealth and Fashion ! 

This picture, although it presents points for the use of the satirist, is yet 
a profitable and a pieasurabje subject of contemplation — as it shows us that 
in this country attif man in ony honest calling, and possessing tact, indus- 
try, and perseverance, can establish himself and family in any social posi- 
tion for which their natural faculties may have endowed them — that beauty, 
and worth, and genius, no matter what may be the circumstances of their 
birth, nor how they may be sneered at by supercilious parvenus, cannot be 
withheld, save by themselves, from assuming that rank and exerting that 
influence to which they are entitled. 

Therefore, if we have indulged in a little innocent fun while depicting 
some of the more striking scenes and peculiarities of the New York Eating- 
House, we are the last to deny their usefulness, their absolute necessity, as 
one of the most important elements in that great and astovmding whole. 
New York As It Is. 



.ledtyGoOl^lc 



72 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

— Under the head of Eating-Houses it is also proper to.mention the loe- 
Cream Saloons of Broadway, and the Confectionery Shops in the Bowery 
and otlier portions of the metropolis. The Broadway establishments are 
generally fitted up in a style of exaggerated finery, which has a grand 
effect from the street, but is a little too glaring and crushing when you are 
within. At night, when the gaudy curtains, silver paper, and gilded mir- 
rors are highly illuminated hy gas-light, the scene rises almost to splendor 
itself, or at any rate to that which most people are willing to accept for it, 
and never know the difference. In the sultry summer evenings, every one of 
these fashionable Ice-Cream Saloons is crowded with throngs of well-dressed 
men and women, belong^nag for the most part to the great middle classes ; 
while the establishments in the Bowery are crammed to the veiy threshold 
with the b'hoys and their buxom and rosy sweethearts, their veins leaping 
with the fire of health and youth, and their round cheeks glowing with 
happiness. 

But in the daytime, save now and then some dainty male creature, who 
happens to be in love, and thinks it would be sacrilege to eat any thing 
heartier than ice-cream and lady-cake till the crisis comes off, (being fortu- 
nately ignorant that his hella inamorata is at that very- moment " putting 
in" a slice of roast beef garnished with string-beans and new potatoes^ 
the ice-cream saloons are mostly patronized by ladies, who stop on their 
way from Stewart's to regale themselves with a dish of fragrant soughing 
and a sandwich, or perhaps the more exquisite but dangerous luxury (so 
fascinating are dangerous luxuries !) of a sherry-cobbler. Here, too, if 
appetite prompt, they can be supplied with the finest of oysters, delicately 
served, or with a broiled chicken-wing, a woodcock & la toast, or even the 
more vulgar and substantial luxury of a porter-house steak. 

And so, good-by to the Eating-Houses — ^tjll dinner-time. 



Slice IIX.— DELMONICO'S. 

To dine at Delmonico's, as" a correspondent of The Tribune once add of 
traveling in Europe, two things are requisite — money and French. Of the 
latter a hltle will answer ; but the more you have of the former ingredient 
the better yon are off, as well at Delmonico's as elsewhere. 

The lower saloon is appropriated to general and indifferent customers, 
who come in in a hurry and must return to their business as soon as posse- 
ble. The great and extensive French and continental importing interest 
furnishes two or three scores of daily dinners at Delmonico's — men of edu- 
cation and refined tastes, familiar with the world and carrying with them 
wherever they go an air of quiet and easy deference so characteristic of the 
thorough-bred gentleman everywhere, and which make you at once feel a 
higher respect for yourself as well as for everybody else. Besides these, you 
will frequently meet little knots of travelled American gentlemen, who have 



(b, Google 



DELMONlCO't 



73 



unconsciously Caught the some tone and spirits The waiters, too, have been 
r^;ulavly trained to their profession, and, without seeming to observe you, 
are always at your elbow just at the moment you are beginning to think 
about wishing for something, and listen to you with a grave attention which 
assures you that you are to receive exactly what you have ordered, and ia 
the shortest possible time. They seem to come by electric telegraph, at 
the first motion of your thought. 

After you have ordered your dinner, (and we don't suppose you to be 
such a booby as to require any instructions as to what you will eat,) you 
Lave a little leisure to look about and make your observations. There on 
your right is an elderly Frenchman dining with his son. The father is still 
splendidly preserved, and his hair, whiskers, and moustache have been so 
exquisitely dyed that their owner himself be^ns almost to think that he has 
been only dreaming of the flight of Time. It is really beautiful to see the 
perfect deference with which the handsome old gentleman is treated by his 
boy. Whether it is a something in the dignified affability of the father, or 
e of the son, certain it is that the paternal authority sits 




much more gracefully and naturally with foreigners than with us. They 
are no better, perhaps, but they are more gracious. They have had the 
good sense to think it worth while to study and teach the philosophy of 
the LriTLB. On this nine-tenths of social happiness depends. This, most 
American men, and women too, have yet to learn, or at best but selfishly 
and partially understand. 

At the next table behind these, in an attitude of listless self-complacencj, 
site a tall, striking-looming man, with ruddy beard and moustache, setting 



ibyGoogIc 



NEW YORK IN SLICES 



finished — his, breakfast ; for there stands the gigantic chocolate-cup, deep 
enough for him, long as he is, to drown himself in it, and before him !ion the 
delicate reinalnB of the ixa/s en fringier with which he has been trifling. Al- 
though still under twenty-five, he is evidently a thorough-bred man of the 
world — an epicure, an amateur, a dilettante, a gallant, a critic, almost a 
coxcomb. You would think at first that he had travelled. So he has — 
but it haa only been between book-covere. There are few operas he does 
not know — from the score ; few pictures, statues, or churches he is not fa- 
miliar with — by description ; but he has in reality never been out of H" w 
York Ho is, prqudice, vanity, obstinacy and all, a remarkable young man, 
and wields tn intellectual battle-axe between his thuinb and forefingers that 
will cleave its way in time through any Front-De-Boeuf castle of stupidity 
that he may chance to fall in with. That is Richard Grant WnrrB, the 
musical critic of i^ morning paper. 

To the right, yonder, nestled among piles of preserve-jars, scolloped 
oranges and meringues a la crime, are four persons somewhat worthy of 
notice. The one whose profile is turned to us, he with the massive, Jupi- 
tolan head and bushy hair— upon whose sensuous mouth good-nature is 
broadly contending with scorn of every thing and everybody, and nine times 
m ten gets the mastery — is Parkb Godwis ; one of the profoundest, most 
earnest yet most consistent and practical of Our strong men of progress, 
whom it Jias been the good fortune of the present age to produce. He is 
an Associationist a Swedenborgian, a Homeopathist, a Hydropathist, a 

we know not what. But he is at the same time a hard and hopeful 

worker in the citrln where he finds himself and with the materials which 
surround him When men learn to think for themselves, instead of taking 
the wind from those human weathercocks perched upon high pbice^ they 
will discover that here is a man who has gone before them — vrtio has thought 
more than they ever have thought or can think. 

Opposite Mm, in almost every respect, is a tall, shapely man, daintily 
dressed, and in a style that lets peep out here and there an all-pervading 
and inextinguishable love for the beautiful, which even, as in woman, seeks 
to expend itself upon the dress. The upper part of his face, with the long, 
clustering, glossy ringlets, 

" brown in Ihe shadow, golden in (he son," 

has something cherubic in its expression — but the eye is small and sensual ; 
and the irrepressible pout of the under-lip, and the white, full-swelling 
throat, add at once mortality to the composition. He is, as perhaps he 
himself might not disdain to express it, a sort of human julep, composed of 
spirits and sugar, with a pungent flavor of the mint, which makes the very 
air spicy around him. On his upper-lip grows modest and maiden-like a 
brief moustache, delicately arched into a capital W, and which will doubt- 
less in time fulfill its orthographical destiny in completing the name of its 
owner — Wilms. 

At the right-hand of the amber-maker, in whose embalming ointment of 
sweet words straws are preserved till they become precious as diamonds, 
behold we indeed a manly and a noble face. Not a tortuous nor crossed 
line on its whole broad and smiling periphery. Even the tracks left by 
lime's crows as they go croaking over both poet and fair lady, bower and 



DELMONICO'S. 75 

sanctum, have an air of openness and temerity, as if they said, " We spell 
40 — have you any objection, ar?" His forehead is lofty and unruffled as 
the glaciered Alps — eyes mild and blue, with the golden dream of poetry 
shining through and &reatening to rain beautiful conceits — mouth bold, 
decided, utilitarian, anti-poetical and substantial. He speaks slowly, ele- 
gantly, and from the purpose — very much as he writesT— yet always with 
a vbible trace running through the mottled web that will be sure to lead 
him home at last. Sometimes his aoul lights with a chivalric new thought 

then indeed the painted and wildly- scattered clouds begin to concentrate 

and now, look out for a musical thunder-storm ! That is Charles Fkhno 

HoFFMAM, the song-writer of America : and if he and WiLua never did 
dine together at Delmonico's it is not ray fault — they ought to have done so. 

The fourth member of this group is only an Editor, and not worth wasting 
lame or foolscap upon. No matter what he wfites, it will be forgotten to- 
morrow ; while the " cooka wanted" in the adverting page will be cher- 
ished at least ft week — by the housekeeper. He, however, like the poor 
ephemeron, seems to be unconscious of the speedy and daily oblivion to 
which he is hastening, and laughs as heartily as if he had a month of fame 
to live — deluded ma,n ! The leader upon the Irish question in England, 
which you have heen all day ransacking other people's libraries and your 
own brains to concoct, will be read to-morrow by sis old fogies on their 
way to Wal!-street, just to keep them out of speculating on somebody in the 
omnibus, and will be spelt out, by way of penance, by your unhappy eldest 
daughter, so that she may praise it to mamma at dinner, and thus swindle 
you out of money for a new frock, 

Ihe rest of the room is occupied by merchants whose thoughts are upon 
bank accounts and balances, as they attempt to play patient while their 
meals are coming. They all belong to the same class, and its type it would 
be difficult to describe. With the exception of moustaches inconveniently 
long, which seem to be dragging the soup-spoon for dead bodies, they have 
no salient nor remarkable features. They dine, pay, go away— bargain, sell 
— do so again to-morrow — and the neit. ^id the neit day, and so on from 
month to month and year to year — never changing, never growing old — 
never dislocating their jaws nor jerking their heads across the room while 
speaking, although it seems inevitable that the next gesticulation must pro- 
duce those results. 

Above-stairs are numerous suites of private apartments, embracing sitting, 
dining, and retiring-rooms — plainly but sufficiently furnished, and kept con- 
stantly busy. Into these rooms, perfumed with the fragrant breath of Bur- 
gundy, we have no right to enter. Though should we make use of our 
clairvoyant faculties, now and then, we might discover and relate scMies 
that would make the fortune of a reporter. When we grow avaricious of 
fame or money we may attempt it. 

Thus have we made the tour of the New York Eating- Houses, to discover 
that not one of them is conducted on the true principle. By the appliqué- 
tion of a proper system of co-operation and distrihutJon of labor and profits, 
all the advantages of Delmonico's could be easily furnished at the minimum 
sixpence of the others. This will some day be understood by capitalists as 
well as consumers ; tuid then it will be accomplished at once — while all the 
Troll wilt wonder why they had not thought of it long ago. 



floated by Google 



\ V 



NEW YORK IN SLICES 



Slice XI— THE DANDIES. 

SiHOB the lamentable failure of the whisker-crop on the Boulevard dea 
Islamism, New York is the only City and Bro^midway the only street in which 
any thing like a respectable assortment of live Dandies can be found. — As 
to the bucks of Bond-street and the swells of St. James, we regard them 
not. Never was that peculiar and exquisite compound of genius and folly, 
nonsense and intellect, necessary to the creation of a perfect Dandy, found 
in an English skull. We know what you are going to say about Beau 
Brummel, and Bulwer, and Ben D'Israeli — but that doesn't shake us a jot. 
They must be regarded as monstrosities — and besides, D'Israeli, who comes 
much nearer a Dandy than either of the others, is a Jew. In New York, 
however, we hafre an abundance of the tine misture — the French sparkle, 
tlie Italian grace, the Spanish impudence, and a pretty considerable tall 
sprinkling of the true " native American nerve." In short, as Paraguay is 
s^d by travellers to be the paradise of monkeys, we regard Jfew York as 
destined to become the metropolis of Dandies. 

The first requisite of character for a Dandy must be an affectation of ab- 
solute indifference. Dandies must he exactly the reverse of all the rest of 
mankind ; and as commoo people see so many beautiful and wonderful and 
melancholy things as they go through this world that their admiration or 
their sympathy is constantly in a state of excitement, it of course becomes 
a necessity of existence with the Dandy that he should admire nothing and 
sympathize with nothing. To maintain successfully this difficult and tedious 
rdle through life, requires certain powers of mind and attributes of shark- 
ter to be immensely developed ; and, the mere spoony who (like most mere 
spoonies) attempts to play the Dandy.is very soon discovered to be only 
the dunce. A genuine Dandy need not have a heart, but he must have 
brains ; he need not he profound, but he must be brilliant ; he does not re- 
quire absolute talent or genius, but he must possess inexhaustible invention 
and dgantio tact. Indeed, to be a consummate Dandy, it is necessary to 
have been bom for a great man and unfortunately shut up in a bandbox by 
mistake. Extravagance, gaudiness, or peculiarity in dress are the things 
which, although they almost certainly bespeak the vulgarian, are least jokey 
to medicate the Dandy. Ostentation and superciliousness to inferiors are 
ec|ually opposed to the idea of Dandyism — which, however it may an- 
nihilate its equals or humiliate its superiors by an intense and cool con- 
tempt,' is careful to treat its inferiors with deference and respect. Perfect, 
absolute self-possession, at all times and in all places, is the. fimdamental 
element, as it is the crowning glory of Dandyism. 

In New York Dandyism is already established, and recognized as a per- 
manent element of society ; and we can at once put our finger on several 
magnificently got-up specimens of the different genera of this int«resting 
species. 

Among the most interesting, as being the best known, is the Dandy on 
Short Allowance. This unfortunate creature has but a single object for 
which to live — an object which employs al! his waking thoughts, and pre- 



jyGOQt^lc 



THE DANDIES 



71 



sents itself even n h s d earns. This is to conceal not only his poverty, 
but every thing that myht lead to a suspii,ion of it. Rich men may be 
mean, without damage to their credit but tl e Dandy on Short AOowance 
must ever appear hberal at any saLnfice — unless m the case of servants or 
tailore, or such rubbish To these he may be — and m fact it is his duty to 
be — as stingy as possible Hi, may face his butcher out of a shilling a day 
and get up false m^ entones of his linen f r the purpose of cheating his 
washerwoman ; he may black his own boots and dine on a link of Bologn 
sausage and a cracker he may resort to any economical shift that : 




itself in the internal ei,onomj au his e&txbliahnient— but I mist L liberal 
before folks We know ot more than one anstocrahc and tonnish family 
who many a time go suppeiless to bed and wake up hungry that the head 
may keep his ridin^ hor'.e and sport a sofa it Nibble b and often and often 
have we heard the champagne pop at his expense, when the grocer on the 
- corner wouldn't trust him for a pint of vinegar. 

Well — if he chooses to make such a sacrifice, who shall condemn him ? 
Who does not also play a part, of some kind — -fortunately, both for himself 
and others, if it be any thing so harmless as the innocent self-delusion of the 



bade, Google 



78 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

Dandy' You, Genenl with cocksfeather on your empty head, and the 
brass of youi cowardice gilded over with the tinsel of your epaulette! 
what part phj lou in this great werld-drama, that you should eneer and 
curl up -your ugly moustache at our poor Dandy ? Or you, learned and 
fair 111, with watch m hand and finger on pulse ! what know you of the 
sick mm's iilin^, or of the real properties of the horrent and nauseous stuff 
you wiU presently administer to him with an air of pompous and owl-like 
wisdom ? Should he die within the hour, you will carry to the grave the 
consciousness that you. may have killed him — but the world is none the 
wiser for that. The part you play is that of the great medicine. Only 
continue tp have plenty of impudence, and they wil! never disavow that 
you were racing on the Avenne when you were supposed to be at your 
Lectures, and that you became a capital hand at billiards while you« might 
have wasted your time in studying bones and cartilages in the noisome at- 
mosphere of the Dissecting- Room. 

But to return to our Dandies. Neit in order to the Dandy on Short Al- 
lowance comes the Rich Dandy. The animal is rarer, and consequently the 
fur is esteemed as much more valuable by those who have the plu king of 
it. The Rich Dandy is an enormous favorite at eating-houses, elub rooms 
and gambling establishments, and it ia here that he passes most of his life 
with the 'exception of the brief intervals that he allows himself to be impor 
tuned by "cotton" mothers and fascinated by irresistible yoong ladies 
Here, however, his very perplexity saves him. Were there , but one he 
would he hooked in a fortnight— he js so good-natured. But now he 
knows not how to choose, and thus break the hearts of all tjie rest So the 
Rich Dandy lives and dies a bachelor — bequeaths his boots to his \alet his 
wines and pictures (such as will answer for public inspeedon) to the arte 
tioneers, and hi fortune to the SuiTOgate. — He never does good to inyhody, 
except to the two dozsn Bcore of toadies who eat and drin.k at his expense, 
and make merry and free with his money. He lives and dies without an 
enemy — and without a friend ; he is less remembered than his dinners, and 
ia mourned for as the sponge laments the fate of the Croton when the pipe 
at which it fed is turned off. 

The Pinchbeck Dandy is the man you saw yesterday " oftTorting" up 
Broadway, with a cane of the size of Hercules' club, his b-oad plaid trow- 
ser^ " sixty inches round the bottom," and spread out over the instep so 
as nearly to -conceal hia foot. His appearance ia generally what is termed 
" flash;? '—but that doesn't exactly describe it. We should rather shark- 
terize it as outre and deliberately ungraceful. It is imitated frran the 
cockney idea of gentility, which is to dress, in some way, markedly unlike 
everybody else. With a man of genius, this ambition, turned in a higher 
direction, may create a dandy — with a mediocre man it on!y leads him to 
become a fool. To seek for notoriety and distinction, in the peculiar cut w 
color of one's dotes, is reducing the idea of man to its minimum dimensitMis. 
King Jocko-Bung of the Cannibal Islands, with fish-bones stuck through 
his nose and ostrich feathers in his ears, sticks his legs through the sleeves 
of a scarlet coat and struts about, a perfect specimen of the Knehbeck 
Dandy. 

A great majority of the Dandies of New York, as well as of everj- other 
place, belong to this variety. They are the greatest cowards in existence, 
notwithstanding appearances to the contrary ; and a strMght-forward look 



(by Google 



THE LIQUOR GROCERIES. 79 

into their eyes will cow them as instantaneously as it will any other iota- 
dent puppy. They generally live a worthless, deformed Fe, and sink down 
from a disgraceful youth to a mean manhood and a contemptible old age. 
Their haunts are the grog-shop, the theatre, the howling- saloon, and the 
Third-avenue. They are ambitious of heing quoted as authorities as to how 
many pins Joe Noggins got down with ten balls, and how many points st 
billiards "Andrew" made without stopping. WTjenover they make their, 
appearance at any public place frequented by ladies and gentlemen, it is 
their delight to keep nervous people on the rack for fear of a row — of 
which, however, there is not the slightest danger. If they are at a Goneert, 
they consider it a capital joke to wear their hats, and make so mueh noise, 
with feet, hands, and tongue, that nobody in their vicinity can hear a note 
of the music. They mostly go in squads ; and one of them by himself is 
always_ as still as a mouse. In a word, they only tack courage to be the 
most disagreeable and dangerous of ruffians ; but, as it is, they merely rise 
to the level of third-rate loaferism. On Sundays they range- themselves 
around the doors of fashionable churches, and stare out of countenance such 
ladies as may be without protection, or are only accompanied by an old 
man, from whom our bloods would he able to run away should he attempt 
to chastise them. At night, too, they prowl about the streets insulting 
poor seamstresses and millinei--girls on their way home with woA. Such 
infamous acts as these sufficiently stamp tiler character. They are a pest 
and a nuisance, whom every decent man should be authorized to kick out 
of his way whenever he encounters them. 

Such is a brief eaUilogue raisot.nee of the Dandies of New York — a race 
of bein^ which will in good time become extinct to make room for one 
of the eighteen supplemental races who, according to Fouriw, are to make 
their appearance from. time to time upon the earth, as Man progresses in 
the accomplishment of his desthy. It won't be very hard to spare them. 



Slice IXI.— THE LIQUOR GROCERIES. 

Or the innumerable deus of dissipation which our City contaiis, we be- 
lieve the Uquor Gorier {b^ which we mean family groceries where grog 
is retailed) are the most pernicious, because they afford facilities for drunk- 
ennui to thousands of husbands, wives, and children, who^ otherwise m^ht 
not be tempted. Situated in the midst of neighborhoods thickly inhabited 
by poor families, whose members are compelled to resort to them dative for 
the supply of the table, they afford a tempting lounging- place to the tired 
Mirror as well as the vexed housewife, who spend there in drink and hurt- 
M idleness the hours of rest and domestic intercourse. The little remain- 
der of the weekly earnings left over from the bill for groceries and other 
necessaries from the store, is quickly absorbed for rum and whiskey, while 
every week of this indulgence renders its victims less able and less disposed 



lostedbyGoOf^lc 



eO ■ NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

to work. The household and the shop are thus neglected — work disap- 
pears, confidence in the man's honesty is destroyed, the dwelling is squalid, 
the children filthy and naked, ancf soon the most abject poverty sleps in — 
Pauperism conducts the wretched inmates to the Almshouse, Crime hur- 
ries them to the Penitentiary, or Disease bears them to the grave. 

After the money is gone, the first thought of the drunken father or mo- 
ther is to pawn the furniture of the house, and when that disappears, their 
own and their children'? clothes, until every thing possessed by the wretch- 
ed family is swept away — melted into the ■whiskey-barrel — and utter deso- 




lation and destitution reign where once was smiling and full-fed content 
The scenes which take place nightly in these filthy holes are eno^' '"- ' 
make one despair of human nature. On the one hand, the degrade 
and abjectness of the poor father and mother reduced by a brutal appeti 
beggar themselves and children ; and on the-other, the. cold-blooded me 
canary grog-seller, careless of the misery and i-uin he inflicts upon a whole 
family, so that he can add a few shillings to his soi-did gmns, are specla- 
clea inspiring almost equal pity and disgust. If it is necessary to have.as 



ibyGbof^le 



THE LIQUOR GROCERIES. gl 

people at present seem to think, a " family grocery" on every corner, there 
surely is no need that these establishments soiled dea! in liquors, and ped- 
dle out poison at three cents a dose. If the stuffs they sold were the 
genuine liquors whose naraes they bear, the case would be bad enough ; 
but they are, almost universally, the most villainous and filthy compounds, 
often containing active sutd deadly poison. The brandy sold" here is noth- 
ing but alcohol, tinctured and flavored with various noxious ingredients to 
give it color and flavor— the gin is mere ratafia and whiskey — the rum is 
the fieriest New England, sweetened and corrupted — and, as has been 
proved by abundant experiments, the beer and other malt liquors are com- 
posed of the most deleterious and disgusting substances. Armed with 
such fatal weapons as these, the Liquor Grocery squats itself like a ven- 
omous toad upon the comer of a block of miserable poor-men's dwellings, 
crowded and overrunning with families, deprived of air and wholesome 
sunshine, and disseminates its venom on all around. It is no wonder that 
the neighborhood grows filthier and filthier, and its inhabitants more and 
more besotted and depraved. . One after another the men and women be- 
come drunkards, their neglected and abandoned children grow up thieves 
and prostitutes, and the whole vicinity reeks with ciime and every nnclean- 
ness. But the proprietor of the Liquor Grocery waxes fat and thrif.y. One 
after another the wretched hovels of his pauper customers are stripped of 
furniture and beds, and even their inmates of clothes, while all comes to his 
counter in exchange for rum, and is transmuted into silver and golden prof- 
its. By and by he begins to expand his ideas and his operations — adds 
note-shaving and bill-broking in a small way — perhaps advances thirty per 
cent, on gold watches handed in by seedy-looking customers, without ask- 
ing any questions as to how they came by them — and eventually swells out 
into the capitalist and the financier ; makes his appearance one fine day in 
Wall-street among the speculators in the fancies, while his wife and daugh- 
ters flare out in a fire-new mansion " Above Bieecker ;" take a front sofa 
at the Opera, and aflect to rule the world of fashion and aristocracy. As 
to bis customers — from whose madness he amassed his fortune — they have 
not fared so well. Some are in the Hospital, some in the Almshouse, and 
others in the Penitentiary or State Prison — while a few of the more fortu- 
nate among them are in their graves. 

But we have not yet completed our description of the Liquor Groceries, 
As soon as the shutters are closed at night upon the scones we have been 
depicting, another class of operations commences. The cabman, the pri- 
vate groom, the colored steward, the incipient pickpocket, the b'hoy, drop 
in, one after another, and soon a little knot is formed round the counter. 
A pack of greasy cards is produced — the sixpences tinkle — the eyes of the 
host andbanker glisten with the shine of his anticipated gains, a game of 
sixpenny vignt-et-un or penny poker commences, and every heart is ab- 
sorbed in the one worst, most, fiendish passion of the human sou!. Thus, 
ail night long the game is kept up, mollified now and then by a choice 
swig at the " poney" — (all at the expense of the benevolent landlord !)— 
unless some member of the paWy gets unusually boozy, or escil«d with bis 
losses, and breaks up the conce^ in a grand row. ITien enter the Police 
Officers — " Walk in, gentlemen, and take a drink !" and the offenders are 
dragged off to the Tombs, and duly reported against in the morning hy the 
order-Joving officers, while the landlord sweeps off the money with a chuckle 



(b.Googlg 



NEW YOKK IN SLICES. 



and a wink — sands his sugar, waters his r 
and after a short prayer, 



L, and moistens his tobacco — 



The Liquor Grocery would not be complete, in its debasing and demor- 
alining power, without the presence and assistance of those wretched female 
outcasts, whose breath is pollution, and whose touch leprosy. Accordingly, 
as soon as night sets in, the groceries in certain quarters of the City begin 
to be haunted by these wretched beings, who fortify themselves with alco- 
hol for their nightly occupation. It is difficult to imagine a more heart- 
chilling spectacle than the interior of one of these dark and dingy stab- 
lishments with a group' of gorgeously-dressed women drinking and blas- 
theming round the counter. When you remember what an angel of purity 
and goodness Woman ought to be, and then behold the scene before you, 
the power of contrast is exhausted — Heaven and Hell are as it were spread 

There are yet other evils connected with these petty groceries which well 
deserve attention. The articles they sell are for the most part inferior, and 
often positively unwholesome, and the manner of retiuling them out by the 
three cents' worth makes them coat the consumer two, three, or four times 
as much as the fair market price, and often a great deal more—to say 
nothing of what sticks to the measure or the scale, nor of the false weights 
and measures used in too many of these establishments. The swindle thus 
practiced upon the poor man is eoormoua and incredible. His earnings, 
meager as they are, would be more than doubled, in effect, if he could buy 
his groceries and provisions at fair prices and of good qnaUty, instead of 
frittering awayjijs money for sixpences' worth of butter, half pints of mo- 
lasses, and tenpenny slices of ham. The grocery keeper, for instance, buys 
butter of an inferior quality at twelve and a half or fourteen cents per pound, 
and retails it at two shillings. For half a pound he generally manages, by 
an ingenious use of ten and five cent pieces and cents, to get thirteen ; for 
a quarter, seven cents ; while he boldly puts on the two-ounce wtight (with 
a hole in the bottom) whenever a bare-legged little girl calls for " four -cents 
worth of butter" — thus making the pound bring him thirty-two cents. He 
buys a barrel of common New Orleans molasses at twenty-five cents per 
gallon, and retails it to his customers at sixpence the pint — of which one- 
sixth sticks to the measure — thus brining the price to the consumer to 
half a dollar or seventy-five cents per gallon. In liquors it is the same. 
Whiskey costs the grocer thirty cents per gallon, and he reduces it ten or 
fifteen per cent, for the sake of temperance. He then retails it at sixpence 
per half pint, or a doHar per gallon. His brandy costs him, include^ the 
expense of coloring and poisoning, from thirty-five to forty cents per gal- 
lon, and he sells it at two dollars ; or, in case of a customer who wants 
something very choice, he draws it from another cask of the same kind, 
calls it "Real Old Cognac of 1800," and unblushingly receives three dol- 
lars and a half per gallon for the villainous stuff! And this system is car- 
ried through almost every article in the shop. In one comer is a tub of 
stale distillery milk, ready to curdle with the loathsome diseases with which 
every particle is rife, and which is sold at five . cents per quart, as " genu- 
ine Orange County" — in proof of which a rag hangs out at the door with 



(by Google 



THE LIQUOK GROCERIES 



83 



a dnnaly-pamted cow done in Iriokdo.l. By tie nse of this poisoned 
nilli alone, thousands of infants and children are sent to premature Kraves 
—OS anj respectable physician of ciperience will readily inform you The 
batloj, eggs, lard, salt fsh, and meal sold here are also generalli stale and 
itched, unfit to sustain Lfe, and highly conducive to disease, and constantly 
keeping the neighborhood predisposed to take the first epidemic that ar-- 
nves. m Its worst and most malignant form. These causes, added to the 
healthy and nnvontilated apartments hilo which our poor population is crowd- 
ed, abundantly account for the devastating virulence with which the cholera 
and other epidemics sweep through the ranks of the working classes i and 
when we add the dreadful consequences of dissipation upon poisoned liquors 
and beer, the picture of horror is complete. 

Thus we see that these Liquor Groceries— of which we have some two 
thousand m New York*— constitute one of the giealest pests and curees 
of society Furmslung as they do the facilities of dissipatioa to the great 
body of the poorer classes, they therefore deserve the especial and c™t 
attoiiioii of every true friend of temperance. As one such we urge upon 
the authorities, with nlUiQ f,uv.a „r ; j j.... . ,. 6 f " 



— „„ „, J u.„^ ,.m.,u au temperance. As one such we urge upon 

the authorities, with all the foree of conscience and duty, to discuss gravely 
in Uieu- councils the question as to the right or propriety of granting Ucense 
to any family grocery whatever to sell intoxicating liquors-at the same 
time tc. bestir themselves in suppressing the innumerable holes where it is 
sold ie.tto.1 licen«. Could they, as we have done, go through these vile 
haunts, and see their misenible victims drinking away their lives and pawn- 
ing their children s bed and clothing, tie would, we are certain, postpone 
lor a time their fierce debates upon the distribution of the spoils of office, 
forego all considoitions of vote-making and political popularity, and set 
senonsly at Dvorak to cleanse the City of these deus of pollufiou and iniquity 
Is It too much to ask of a government which costs as much as ours, that it 
should do what may he done to suppress and extirpate the thousands of 
pest-houses which scatter death and destruction in our midst? Of what 
use are our magnificent systems of public education, our splendid private 
chantahle societies, and even the effective efforts of unostentatious Individ- ■ 
uals of piety and benevolence, when all their benign influences and endeav- 
oia are noutralirf by the pestilence of a grogshop seated at every poor 
man s door? What i, the responsibility of that government, which" in- 
formed and warned of these things, still suffers •the evil to continue and 
inorease from year to year ? Will a splendid weekly collection ih the Tea- 
Koom— even though the reporters are excluded out of tenderness to the 
dear people s purse— wdl an annual cherry-party to Randall's Island— a 



ra (ho following- ni 



XII 147 XVII,.., 

XIII.-...- 123 IXVIIL... 

XIV 198 MiaodlBa 



Of thiB number there are perhaps about five or six hundred who take out I 
regular and respeclabia hotels, .and for excise. These of couise do not come 
deacnpbons of " Liquor Oroceriet." 



(b, Google 



84 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

Fourth of July jubilation — -a grand turn-out and flare-up to the tune of 
five or six thousand dollars every time Brevet Drum-Major John Smith 
honors the City with a visit — will all this serve to cover up these momen- 
tous moral delinquencies, of which they are doubly guilty, as magistratea 
and men V and if so, how is it with them as Christians ? 



Slice nil.— THE IMMIGRANTS. 

Thjbtv-two thousand seven hundred and odd Immigrants arrived in New 
York during the month of May. In June thirty-three thousand and forty- 
seven, and in July, August, and September, the nuniher will probably be 
increased to forty thousand per montii ; while during the Winter there will 
probably not be so many. Taking the whole year together, we may est.- 
mate that we shall receive an addition to our population from Emigration 
alone, of some three hundred thousand souls, at this single port. Of this 
immense mass of human beings less is known than of any other class of in- 
habitants — partly from the indifference which all feel about what does not 
immediately concern, themselves, and partly from the difficulty of obtaining 
reliable information. Until the passage of the recent law respecting tha 
licensing of immigrant runners and agents, there were over seven hundred 
persons engaged in the business — many if not most of them making lat^ 
sums of money by deceiving, lying to, and swindling the poor Immigrants, 
under all sorte of scandalous pretexts. The main business, however, was 
decoying them into cheap boarding-houses, and then extorting extravagant 
prices until their money was nearly gone, and finally defrauding them of the 
remainder by a forged ticket of conveyance through to Buffalo, St. Louis, 
Chicago, or wherever else they wished to go, and which would only take 
them up the river as far as* Albany, or some intermediate landing — where 
they would be left utterly penniless and destitute on the shore, without a 
friend and with no posable means of redress, often being unable even to 
speak a word of our language. It is horrible to think of the hundreds of 
innocent and confiding people, willing to work, and who have sought this 
land of liberty under the impulse of a sentiment of admiration and confi- 
dence, 'which of itself adds nobility to their character, thus plundered and 
left utterly helpless to starve or beg. No wonder they ,do not all turn out 
models of intelligence and patterns of propriety. 

The " emigrant boarding-houses" into which these people are inveigled 
upon their arrival here, are for the most part tolerably fair buildings and 
decency kept, hut many of them are the I'ilest and most abominable sties 
ever inhabited by swine. They are generally located in the streets nearest 
the wharves on either side of the city — built of brick and in the narrowest 
and most sordid fashion — utterly destitute of wholesome space in rear, dry 
cellarage, or needful ventilation — cut up into little rooms, or rather stalls, 
floor above floor, into whii;h whole families are thrust to swelter and corrode 



(by Google 



THE IMMIGRANTS. 35 

and grow abhorrent — ovemin from basement to garret witb cockroaches, 
fleas, bedbugs, wharf-rats, and every other sort of vermin indigenous or 
possible to the climate, and never cleansed from the time they are built nn- 
tj] they tumble down. — Id the ground story is generally a " family grocery 
and provision store," supplied with a few maggoty hams and shoulders, 
half-a-dozen bunches of lard candles melted into one, some strings of dried 
onions, a barrel of No. 3 mackerel, some pipe? and tobacco, and above all 
two barrels of whiskey— one colored red with oak-juice and sold for "first- 
rate Cognac brandy," and the other answering with the most limpid assu- 
rance to the various demands for gin, Monongahela, or schnapps. — Down 
cellar there is a cooper's- shop, a " fence," or a coal-yard, and m front jou 
can buy for sixpence stale oysters more than you would eat for an eagle. 

For the "apartments" in these delectable dwelling-places various prices 
are demanded, according to the size of the immigrant s pile, from three dol- 
lars down to fifty cents a week — which must be paid, hke the subscription 
to anew paper, " punctually in advance." The great source of profit, how- 
ever, to the keepers of these establish me nts is the " store." Here whiskey 
which costs twenty-five cents a gallon, is dealt out at sixpence the half-pint, 
(with a thundering big thump- in the bottom of the measure, all for the 
good of the Temperance Cause,) and molasses is dribbled away by the 
three cents-worth until it costs the consumer a dollar and a half a gallon. 
In such economical expenditure and such sumptuous temptation, of course 
the immigrant's money soon finds the level of the money-drawer, in the 
" grocery," no matter in what story he may lodge. 

la one of these wretched abodes we saw a scene, not many days since, 
which can no more be forgotten than the pain of an insulting blow. In one 
of the little filthy rooms we have mentioned, up. three flights of stairs, were 
an entire immigrant family — the young, stout-hearted, lithe-limbed husband 
and father, now bowed to the dust in unutterable wo, as he tried in vain 
to weep over the body of his wife, who had died an hour or two before 
with that terrible immigrant-scourge the Ship Fever — while a little child, 
its large blue eyes yet reflecting the heaven whence it had so lately come, 
and its white skin as soft and pure, amid all the desolate filth around, as 
rose-leaves, lay laughing and piaying with the stiff and clammy tangles of 
its^ dead mother's hair. There was — except the face of this unconscious 
child— not one feature to relieve the scene of complete, squalid, desolate 
wretchedness, or to invest it with that decent dignity which alone has claims 
upon the sympathies of well-bred benevolence : nothing, on either side, but 
loathsome misery— to add to which, a young medical student, who had 
been sent out on an exploring chemical expeditio'n among a class where his 
blunders would not be observed, was stealing guiltily down stairs a^ we 
crawled slowly up. He had been " practicing on the poor immigrant's 
wife, beyond a doubt! By-and-by he shall have a diploma for dispatching 
respectable people behind damask curtains — such are the blessings of sci- 
enteric attainment. 

The sight of that dead mother and weeping father, (for immigrants have 
hearts,) and of that helpless child, amid this scene of squalor and filth, was 
enough to make one inquire earnestly why such abuses are permitted by 
the authorities of a civilized and Christian city. Here are in New York 
some eighteen hundred or two thousand houses of this description, the 
keepers of which drive a regular trade, m conjunction with the agents and 



.y Google 



86 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

niners, and wring from the poor immigrant, either in extortionate charges 
for the occupancy of their wietched dens, or for fraudulent paas^e-tickets, 
every cent he brings into the country, and which, properly applied, would 
have saved him from want and given him abundant time and means to 
leave the city and obtain employment in the country where it ia so much 
needed. In fact, a very large majority of the immigrants bring money 
enough with them to pay their way ; and few of thera would become bur- 
dens upon public charity were it not for the rascality of those who lie in 
wmt for them, clutch hold of them the instant they set foot on shore, and 
never lose eight of them — aa long as there is a sixpence in their pockets. 
Thus three-quarters of the "foreign pauperism" we hear so much about in 
certain quarters, is the direct consequence of the viiiany of those who 
should assist and protect the honest strangers who seek our shores, bring- 
ing with them their little store and fully determined to labor honestly for a 
free and peaceful existence, such as our country practically holds out the 
promise of to every son and daughter of Adam. 

The recent law requiring immigrant agents to be licensed, has produced 
one good effect — it has reduced the number of those cormorants from seven 
hundred and- over to less than two hundred : and we also believe that those 
who remain are generally a selection from the best of the class. But aftM 
all, any slight melioration to the poor immigrants which may be' effected by 
the reform will most likely be but temporary. As soon as the new state of 
things gets the hang of the schoolhouse, there will be as much hard-hearted 
meanness and cold-blooded avarice as ever. 

What appears to us to be incontestably the duty of the Municipal 
Government — or of some government — is first to purify the abominable 
pest-houses known as " Emigrant Coarding-houses" — compel the landlords 
to have them well ventilated and regularly cleansed, and supplied with 
. Croton water in every floor — and to absolutely prohibit the sale of ardent 
spirits or intoxicating drinks of any description on the premises. Next, if 
such a thing be practicable, there should te public agencies or intelligence 
offices established, free, for the purpose of furnishing farmers in the country, 
and others, workmen and workwomen from the immigrants. It is a fact, 
not perhaps generally known or believed, that there is an actual demand 
at this very moment for thousands of farm-laborers in the vicinity of New 
York, who would receive comfortable food and good pay for a reasonable 
amount of labor, which any man can learn ia a few hours. 



Slice IXIIL— SUNDAY EXCURSIONS, &c. 

There is a deep philosophy in Sunday Excui'sions. We need not, per- 
haps, take the trouble to say that wc are not an apologist of a violation of 
the Sabbath. Any man who disputes the Divine origin of that most beau- 
tiful and beneficent institution, must be insane. But th6 how it is best oh- 



SUNDAY EXCUESIONS, &-c. §7 

served — that is the question while wo think will bear a great deal more of 
charitable, liberal discussion tha» it haa ever yet received. Let ub consider 
Sunday in a great City. 

There are in the City of New York twenty-five or thirty thousand virtiKws 
young women wlio live by daily labor, either as domestics or workers with 
the needle and fingers — seamstresses, cap-makers, book-folders, type-rub- 
bers, fly'girls, &c. &c. In order to earn from two to three dollars and a 
half a week — which is the range of the wages of the better class, while 
there are many hundreds who do not receive half as much as the lower 
sum — they must work from ten to fourteen hours a day, according to their 
quickness of hand and the hardness of their taskmasters. The domestics 
must do more thaii this : they must be up g,t five o'clock in the morning, 
and never cease their toil — and that, too, of tbe hardest kind, such as waaE- 
ing, ironing, cooking, bouse and ehkmberwork, nursing, &c. &c. — until ten 
or eleven at night ; and if they should step ronnd the corner during the 
evening to chat a bit with Paddy, on the sidewalk, there is grumbling enough 
about it. In addition to these, there are thirty thousand families among 
the mechanic and laboring classes, each of whose members must work con- 
atMitly at about the same rate. While the husband is at his shop or under 
liis hod, the wile must do all the cooking, washing, making and mending 
for the whole family — besides nursing her children and being ready to do a 
Utile odd job for a neighbor whenever she can make a shilling by it. There 
are also about the same number of young men as of young women, em- 
ployed constsntly in their various .occupations. From Monday morning to 
Saturday night these people do nothing but work, work, work. They can- 
not afford to lose a day nor an hour ; for it is only by the strictest eoononiy, 
and by living in the poorest and "cheapest way, that they can mate both 
ends meet on Saturday night and lay by the weekly allowance for the 
rent, let them do the best they can. 

Well — Sunday mommg cornea, bright and glorious, — The brown- baked 
City lies gasping and panting for very life beneath the vivid sunshine. 
Every heart remembers some patch of whispering forest, some glade of 
gleaming verdure, some brook-divided meadow, through which strayed the 
- feet of happy childhood — or, if born and .^reared among the brick walls and 
thickened atmosphere of the City, it has at least dreamed of such little 
paradise-spots. There is nothing to do, for a whole day — and how natural 
it is that the first desire of the human being, thus cramped and worn down 
with work, should be for mere physical relaxation 1 It could not and would 
not be otherwise with any class or race of men and women that ever existed. 
So off they fly, by railroad . and ferry-boat and pretty little steamer, or by 
Yorkville omnibus, or by whatever means of locomotion (even if nothing 
better than shanks' horses) that they can make accessible. ' The unmarried 
people dressed in the Sunday best, pair off in natural divisions ; the mar- 
ried, with children tagging behind and crowing baby in fatlier's arms, rush 
by hundreds to the Harlem, cars, which are quickly filled with melancholy 
looking men, (for your man-animal takes poverty" much harder than the 
women,) wives and mothers rigged out in clean frock and neat straw bonnet, 
and noisy, craay children, as happy as General Scott when he took lieiico. 
We s^d the car was full — yes, cramming, choking full — and here comes 
another battalion of pleasure -seekers, scrambling and tumbling wer each 
other to get on board. Jump on — theie's plenty of room. Hake Vray 



looted byGoCJgIC 



88 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

there for ihe ladies — take my seat, madam — ting-a-ling, ding ! and off we 
go— pitching the fat lady who hasn't got her new silk diirtfairly adjusted 
BO as not to wrinkle, headlong into the lap of the gentleman opposite, and 
setting the tall gentleman who volunteered to stand up — if he could — vi- 
brating between the sides of the car like a patent sort of pendulum. But 
a general smile goes round the car, in which the sufferers join, and every- 
body is good-natured — except the fat lady, whose new straw hat, rolled 
outward at the edges to resemble those abominably expensive and aristo- 
cratic Leghorn scoop-shovels which fashionable ladies will wear, as if to 
mock at the goddess they worship, got smashed at making her d^b&l. 
There goes the bell again ! and as we live by bread, (and hot rolls.) here 
is another batch of ardent travellers, panting for the sylvan shades of West- 
chester. Surely they will be bidden wait for the next car ? Not a bit of 
it ! Plenty of room — tumble up — squeeze in — hang on — go ahead — tingle- 
ing-ling ! and so we go ! 

The three ferries to Hoboken are as busy as salamanders, puffing and 
blowing and tramping through the hissing waves, all day long beneath the 
■hot and glowing sun — never stopping lo rest or feed, save now and then to 
swallow a hasty wheelbarrow-load lo wood, and jog on again. Squadron 
after squadron of excursioners, men, women, and children, as usual, hurry 
down in long and unbroken procession, until the brave little ferry-boat, 
afraid of being sunk with its overload of humanity, gives a little hem ! to 
clear its throat, and leaps away from the wharf. 

The Staten Island boats take off, half-hourly, other companies inhumer- 
able of expectant people, gasping for a. breath of untainted air, and es- 
panding their nostrils with intense delight, as they meet the broad, magni- 
facet breeze from the glorious sea. Coney Island also has its numerous 
votaries ; but they form a species of themselves, and must be dealt with 
separately. 

Under the head of *' &c." which you perceive we have cunningly taken 
on to our title, we will proceed to speak a little of the other excursions, for 
which New York is famous. The delicious and cheap sail to Greenwood, 
that most lovely spot of all the lovely environments of New York — the abomi- 
nable and never- to -be -thought- of- without-going-sick-at-the-stomach expe- 
dition to the Fishing Banks, where you are sure to catch a fit of sea-sick- 
ness, besides running a reasonable chance of being sun-struck ; the free- 
and-easy voyage to Coney Island, to discover the cause of the clam-disease ; 
the pleasant and wholesome trip to Cedar Grove, Bull's Ferry, Fort Ham- 
ilton, {Kingly sea-terrace, fit for Neptune's breezy sister ;) to Keyport and 
Middletown, to glorious-New Brighton, and scores of other' haunts of cool- 
ness and delight, the enumeration of which is not to be thought of at this 
stage of our lengthening column — what fields for poetical description, for 
romantic dreaming, for " human" fun ! If we must have great cities, crown- 
ing the free waves and dictating their path to the white-winged ships that 
glide over the blue deep's untrammeled floor. Jet them he like our own mag- 
nificent New York, surrounded by cool and beautiful retreats, ever open to 
the weai7 sons and daughters of Toil — so that in the hot and choking 
summer, when the hinges of the body grow rusty with heat, and the lungs 
corrode with dust, they, for their merry sixpence, as well as the nabob with 
his ostentatious thousands, may hie away and breathe for a while the free 
air of Heaven, look up far into the depths of a pure blue sky, and hold un- 



i by Google 



THE THEATRES. 89 

conscious communing with the sweet Spirit of the Earth that whispers in 
the tree-tops — or, more precious still, plunge into the eool ocean and wrestle 
with the surf, whose very embrace imparts strength and vigor to every 
limb. 

It would not be proper to dismiss the subject of excursions without a 
passing allusion to some of llie disgraceful scenes which are now and then 
enacted on moonlight and other trips, by rowdies and other improper char- 
actere, who come on board without being known in their true character, or 
who force their way in gangs across the gangway. It is simply a matter 
of justice to say that neither the managera of the excursions nor the cap- 
tMns of the boats are aware of the character of their troublesome customers, 
until it is too late, and that they do every thing they can to prevent im- 
proper persons from coming on board. It is the inoperative duty of the 
authorities to place a sufficient number of poiice at the different landings 
where the, boats take on passengers, to preserve strict order, and protect 
peaceable citizens from the annoyances and insiflts of those insolent rowdies 
whose numbers seem to be increasing in New York at a fearful rale, and 
who grow more audacious as they are less and less frequently punished. 

Having thus spoken a good word for the Excursions— which we regard 
as one of the most agreeable and invaluable advantages of our City — we 
are afraid that we must proceed to warn respectable citizens, and especially 
strangers and travellers, that there are certain excursions, moonlight and 
otherwise, loudly praised in the advertisements, of whose true character 
they ought to be made aware. And, because we never deal in animosities 
nor anonymosities, we proceed to say that we allude more particularly to 
the Coney Island business and the numerous moonlight dancing parties or 
" flotilla balls." So long as society fails to extinguish prostitution as a 
profession, and encourages by the patronage and money of its respectable 
citizens, the cyprians as a class, so long we shall be the last to seek to de- 
prive them of any persona! rights and privileges to which others, are en- 
titled. But it would seem to be indispensable that the public should know 
wS«j-e_ these wretched creatures herd with their cullies and fancy men — so 
that, if it chooses, the public aforesaid may leave them to themselves, and 
go, unmolested and uninsulated, about its business. As the political Editors 
say, when-they have said every thing else they can think of — verhum sap. 



Slice niV.— THE THATCHES, 

Who has ever read an honest, faithful account of the Theatres of New 
York— bow tliey are carried on, what they do, and how they do it? Who 
visits them, who plays in them, and what the influence they are calculated 
to exert in the community ? It is true that we have daily articles, in 
several papers, about the performances of the night previous, with glowing 
eulogiums upon each of the performers, upon the author, the manager, the 



.yGoogIc 



90 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

property-man, down to the superninn cranes and tlip leader of tlip orchestra 
But these articles are either written by a Peter Funk eniplo^ ed and paid by 
the managere, and inserted at so much t neck more au less fiood hvL or 
indifferent, or else for the most part ire the "sublime emanations of some 
police reporter enamored of the " legitimate and panting for the honors of 
a free admission, who thus nobly earns the piling of a seat in the dress 
circle when the house is thin, or a standee in the lobby on full nights —As 
to such 8 thing as impartial and jndeptiident cnticism upon Theatres and 
theatrical performances, in the present state of the relations between editors 
reporteis, managers, actors, — and actresses — the thing is palpably out of 
the question. How can you expect a frank and unbiased judgment upon 
the pciformance of Mr. George Fredeiick Cooki" bnooks in the arduous 
and exciting part of Booby in the " Way to Kick up ■* Blimp'; when the 
editor or reporl«r who is to write it his just been supping on beef steak 
and stewed potatoes at Windust's, md legahng himsi,ll on brandy and 
water cold, without, at the expense d the aforesaid George Frederick 
Cooke Snooks? It is clearly preposterous To the perceptions of that 
muddled reporter Mr. Snooks is one of the inost brilliant and promising of 
our youDg actors" — is "bound to make a profound sensation in the higher 
walks of his profession" — and nothing else ' 

-But there is such a thing as descnbing a Theafre in phin and compre 
sensible language — and we have determined to try our hand at it so here 
we are. On the steps we encounter three or lour police-officers, as we 
enter the vestibule, aad attempt to pass in. But there are ladies before us, 
and, you know, 

" When a lady 'a in the case. 
Ail olher thugs give place." 

These are queer-looking ladies, however; and they seem to be entirely 
alone. They are dressed after a fashion which used to be considered abso- 
lutely obsewic, but which has come latterly to be extensively imitated in 
our fashionable and aristocratic drawing-rooms. — They appear to he on in- 
tomato terms with the doorkeeper, who gives them a chuck under the chin 
as they pass through, leaving a strong flavor t£ bad girt behind them. 
These are women of the town, utterly abandoned and infamous, who come 
hero as to an open and licensed assignation -house, to prosecute their infer- 
nal traffic without fear of molestation — unless they should become too 
much intoxicated and disturb the peace. Thai is a heinous offence against 
the laws — but mere public prostitution is not noticed by the law. They come 
up the same steps and enter at the same door as your wife and daughters 
— if you have been green enough to bring them to such a place — jostle 
them in the lobby, and flirt up stairs with a loud laugh and a horrible oath, 
enough to congeal a young pure heart with horror. This is not Llie case at 
the Broadway Theatre. Col, Mann deserves great credit for the reform in 
this particular. So also we are 'bound to say of Mr. Nibble, that he never 
would permit a female to enter his garden unless accompanied by a gfn- 
aleman. 

But let us enter the box. It is a fashionable night, and those '■ magnify- 
cent dancers the Montrejambs" are to perform one of their most beautiful 
and exciting ballets. The dress-circle is filled with diaphanously- robed la- 
dies, who raise enormous instruments to their eyes — something- between a 
telescope and a pair of goggles is just now "the Cheshire" — the better to 



THE THEATRES. 



91 



till- lascnitus, leaps and, gyrations of the men and vomen on the 
Stage ; ■while the todh in the pit .are by tke help lo Mmilar contrn-ances 
scanning the gazeis themselves. Of the exhibitions on the stage it is im- 
possible toi us lo speak in detail. Although they are witnessed with fran- 
tic delight h\ llif n-inds of virtuous ladies and gentlemen jet tho=e very 




persons would unite in denouncing us as sinners of 'the deepest dye if we 
should presume to describe in the morning what they furiously applaud at 

But Shakespeare — surely you do not condemn Shakespeare ? We beg 
pardon — we had foi^ot. .Sh^speare? yes, we think we have heard of 
Mm. Oh yes, now we rearmer — that is the name of the wooden effigy 
over the door. He is not to be seen inside of the house. — He don't draii). 
The old song is worn out — nothing pays now but new-ditty. 



„ Google 



92 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

The act is over; and while the poor fellows in the orchestra are scraping 
their teeth on edge or blowing their brains out in horrible and piercing dis- 
cord, we will step up s'tairs.' The lobby of the second floor is occupied by 
a police-officer or two and a dozen newspaper scribblers, reaching over and 
meekly dodging their heads about among thtpayinp spectators, endeavor- 
ing to get a peep at the glories of the stage as soon as the curtain slain 
rise. Their look of mingled effrontery and sheepishness, profundity and 
maudlin, betrays tbem at once as members (and in their own opinions.no 
inconsiderable members cither) of that great lever of modern times, the 
Press. You will find their names duly recorded on the free-list at the 
door. Tliey are constant attendants at the Theatre, and love to write about 
'' crowded and fashionable houses," in a vague sort of idea that thus, for the 
moment at least, they themselves must have formed a part of said fashion- 
able crowd! Harmless delusion ! TLC stood in the lobby, and never got 
more than their noses inside of the " house." 

■ But we are at the entrance of the "Saloon" — a lai^e, bare, dreary- 
looking Gregory, with a fattish young wom^a in a gilt wat«h-chain and 
half-mourning at either end, behind a little counter covered with rank- 
smelling bottles and . collapsed doughnuts. Between the acts the room 
speedily fills with gentlemen who can't wait for their next drink till the 
play is out, and have left their ladies in the boxes by themselves, to be 
stared out of countenance by the loafers and libertines in the pit. After a 
few minutes, guzzling of bad brandy smashers and talking with the simper- 
ing bar-maid, the gentlemen return to their patient spouses and delighted 
daughters, the curtain rises, and the performance goes on. 

But the first piece is over, and there is a lull of fifteen or twenty minutes. 
If you would like to see how much mischief can be done in a quarter of an 
hour, come with us up stairs. Here you shall see a crowd of painted, 
drunken women, swearing and blaspheming with every breath, sin^nag 
snatches of obscene songs, and slapping the men on the shoulder with 
disgusting familiarity, accompanying the salutation, " Come, ain't you going 
to treat, old boss !" In one corner a young man, escaped from his mother's 
apron-strings, is bargaining with one. of these female fiends a bargain which 
will coiTupt his body and deform his very soul to the likeness of hell— 
which will inevitably lead him on to swindling and fraud, to maintain the 
polluting and infamous course of life upon which he is now entering, and 
bring him to the State Prison or an early grave. — Here is a young married 
man, with a beauteous and blooming wife and a lovely cherub of a baby 
waiting patiently and confidingly for Mm at home — the dear, innocent- 
hearted wife pitying her " poor Henry" who has to stay so late at the store 
in the business season ! How is it possible that he can forget this pure, 
angelic creature, who would lose her beautiful eyes or her still more beau- 
tiful life to save him a single pang, and sit there beside that wjiited sepal- 
chre, that degraded body without a soul, whose breath smells horribly 
offensive with rum and drunkenness, and whose only and last desire is 
to obtain an opportunity under the guise of a coarse caress, to pick his 
pocket? 

Look around this loathsome, reeking chamber, and whom do you see, 
the companions of these beldames and she-devils ? There is a rich banker, 
yonder a respectable lawyer, here a thriving merchant of spotless credit — 
on the nest hench an artist, beyond him a poet, and mingling with all, a 



..Google 



set of rowdy loafers and fire- 
boys — blacklegs and pickpock- 
ets — the suntanned sediment of 
the seething caldron of me- 
tropolitan society. From front 
to rear, from dome to pit, the 
Trbole establishment at times 
is one vast reservoir of immo- 
rality, looseness, blasphemy, and 
obscenity. Moral and virtuous 
men and women, who visit such 
a place as this, rarely see the 
offensive parts which we have 
described. But we cannot 
touch pitch without bdng de- 
filed — nor can one habitually 
mingle in such a vast scene of 
promiscuous depravity as this 
without being more or less con- 
taminated with what he sees 
and hears. 




SUce IXV.— THE OYSTER CELLARS. 

Thb old prejudice' against swallowing oysters in Summer, following pret- 
ty much every other old prejudice, has been completely exploded by the 
brilliant success of Decker, Downing, and others, in coaxing the Natives 
, to unnaturalized themselves, and to be ripe and elastic at any season of the 
year. So we may go boldly down tliis gaudy cellar, gaping invitingly to 
receive lis, even if it were July, without exciting suspicions that we are 
after any thing but oysters. It is true that as we passed that colored glass 
door we saw a company of young clerks betting their employees' money 
with a couple of sbai'pers at brag, over a bottle of champagne, made in 
New Jersey and poisoned in New York. But that is no matter. ITiey are 
fairly on their road to the Penitentiary or the State Prison, and seem to be 
very much hurried to get to their journey's 
back to see what becomes of us. If we bac 
vest, and an extremely short and useless can 
traded their attention. On the other side wi 

lady seated in a private stall, discussing a dozen, broiled, and iced brandy 
punch. But tliey are quite as much absorbed in their own affairs as the 
young gamblei's at cards, and are probably playing for a higher stake — 
perhaps a husband's honor and a wife's immortal soul. They surely will 
take no note of us. So let us enter. , 



They will scarcely look 
I worn a jockey cap, a flashy 
e, we might perhaps have at- 
5 saw, too, a gentleman a 



„ Google 



94 



YORK IN SLICES. 



But we must have made a mistily. .This is surely Aladdin's eave that we 
liave stumbled into. On either hand stretches away, milking and losing 
themselves in a gorgeous labyrinth of many colored glass, damask oration, 
and sh-lded lights, ii long TO\f of mirrored arcades ffstooimd with costly 
blue and Lumsori ailk and wieuthed with golden cimdi-oik the inte 
nor lined wifh pk'e jjli^s Fein>.lied i\iili i Uvula d \ i i the test 




spring pattern, and the walls adorned with exquisite and volupf 
ings — now a woodcock that might have ruffled the easel of Landseer, and 
now a half-cUd woman who might h«ve glowed beneath the pencsl of Bro- 
chart. Between these epicurean riches stretches a broad aisle naagnificently 
carpeted, and hung with splendid chandeliers, half shaded with ground 
glass, and streaming a mysterious gleam, half bright, half shadow, through 
the apartment. In front <rf. the little recess, where,wc have taken our seats. 



(by Google. 



THE OYSTER CELLARS yg 

rises a graceful and fairy structure, of Eglitly-carved wood, painted cream- 
white, and incrusted with arabesque designs in gilt — tlie whole surmount- 
ed witb a, rich slab of jasper- veined marble, wrought with mirror-like polish. 
In ailrer stands, carelessly distributed about this beautiful marble table, are 
orpstal decanter richly cut into classic forms, and costly silver pitchers, of 
delicate shape and exquisite workmMiahip. In these decanters lie coiled up 
the venomous serpents that have stung the life of so many hundred thou- 
sand Boble hearts, corrupted such mirk's of pure souls to the capacity 
and similitude of demons — ^beggared so many wives and daughters — made 
desolate so many homes and hearths — and spread desolation and despair 
through all ranks of society. Taste, drink, riot, grow mad, and die ! 'Tis 
only sixpence a glass ! Cheap enough — yet oh, rash tippler, only to be 
purchased at last with the life of thy immortal soul. In those dainty de- 
canters, smiling amber-hued and rosy — flashing the spiced air with purple 
beams and glowing with golden and fiery essence — lie the spells that once 
conjured to tie lip, will lead thee to ruin, madness, blear-eyed idiocy, and 
untimely death. Dare and die ! 

We have described here only a "first-class" cellar — of which there are 
not more than half a dozen in all the metropolis. They grow gradually 
dimmer and more real, as they increase in number — dropping, one after an- 
other their gaudy and masking finery, until we approach the dingy, noi- 
some three-cent cellar on the Five Pomta with its rotten break neck ladder 
stairs, its single foul-smelling Ught, its leeking and smoke-covered walls — 
its vile and poisoned brandy-— and its group of half niked white and negate 
men and women dancing in tlie middle of the 3ooi au piled indis(.nminatel> 
into the verminous bunks that hue the 
walls. The road from first to last is plain 
and straight-forward, and descended by i 
easy and almost imperceptible gradations 3 
First, the dashing young man, his pook 5 
ets well filled with money, rigged oat m^ 
the " ridiculous excess" <rf. fashion, makes^^ 
his afwuaranco in the gorgeous under \! 
gwMind saloon frequented ' by none but 
aristocratic rowdies and upper- crust black 
legs. Here he soon forms what be con 
siders some "elegant a^ociationa,' _ 

set of veteran libertines, debauchees and3 
gamblers, who initiate him speedily mto^^ 
all the higher and more seductive myste = 
ries of dissipate<m. From the splendid 1 
cellar they adioura to the aristocratic and 

weU-fumished gambling-house, where ev ,, . 

ery thing is conducted with the best bred quietness and deliberation , 
where splendidly -dressed women flit mytenoujly about m lascivious ges 
tures, glancing swiftly through a doom lie and then disappearing is if bv 
enchantment — leaving, however, the fiie of lustrous passional eves burn 
ing in the breast of the young neophyte — fire that will burn foie\ erm >i*> 
and which will lead him gradually yet swittly to a brief dream lo I'lrcc 
and guilty pie asure-t- then lo ruin ind abandonment — and then to (,nnie 
drunkenness, or suicide — perhaps all thrte m turn 




(b.GoogIc 



96 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

From the gambling-house to the brothel is so easy, so brief a distance, 
that few there are who do not take it. This soon reduces the puree, saps 
the constitution, increases the appetite for drink ; and in a few months the 
dashing blood becomes the feeble, maudlin sot, and drops tepidly from au 
haunt and degree of dissipation to another, until he finds himself — or tl 
policeman finds him — a filthy, ragged, idiotic vagabond, herding with n 
groes and low sidewalkers in the holes and corners of the City, and ends 
his miserable career with a death that comes as the only blessing yet left 
for him on earth. 

We should not he doing justice to our description of the bar-rooms of 
New York, if we were to ove]look the numerous second-story coffee-houses, 
which have become fashionable resorts of dissipation within a year or two. 
These man-traps, besides the usual variety of liquor and cigars, are baited 
with a good-looking female barkeeper, who dispenses smiles and smashers, 
and mixes you a piquant jest in your julep, — all for a shilling. In these 
places, as soon as evening sets in, scores of young bloods and would-be 
dandies gather, drinking liquor which they do not like, and smoking cigars 
owlish make them sick, for the privilege of hanging about the counter, and 
exchanging a word or a amile now and then with the divinity behind. From 
the reeking theatres, the smoky billiard -rooms, and slippery bowling-alleys, 
midnight brings crowds of customers of every variety, from the accomplished 
swindler to the merest ambitions tyro who has robbed his master's till to 
cut a swell among folks, who talk balderdash, and soak their miserable 
brains with brandy till they are ready for any enterprise of infamy, and 
sally out staggering up the street, to tumble senseless and swine-hke into 
the first hole that opens to receive them. These bar-rooms, besides the 
positive and active influences they exert in brutalizing and debasing the 
minds of young men, are the accredited seminaries of every species of vice 
— the half-way houses between the first glass and the gutter, the theatre 
and the brothel. Hidden from the public gaze by closed window- shutters, 
and removed from the bruit of the street, they ofler an inviting resting- 
pkce where young men not yet quite corrupted are furnished with every 
facility for stultifying their intellects, brutalizing their tastes, and inflaming 
their appetites. They are the most dangerous because the least Ostend- 
tious of pest-houses ; and the young man who commences by being enticed 
into them, is pretty sure to finish his career in infamy and crime. 

These establishments, and hundreds — we might say thousands — of simi- 
ar ones of all grades and qualities of evil, are well known to the police, 
md could easily he suppressed by the authorities. Why they are not, 
pcrhatis you would not like us to be committed for contempt of court 
oxjiliiiiiing. When the citizens take it into their heads to elect 

n 10 (iflice who are above the reach of interest in the exercise of their 
duties, out laws will be found amply sufficient to suppress these powerful 
temptations to dissipation, and rescue thousands upon thousands of the 
weak-iomded and amiable from courses which are now leading them ire- 
Islibly to infamy and ruin. 



(b, Google 



SUNDAY IN NEW YORK. 



Slice XXVL— SUNDAY IN NEW YORK. 

A 8TK0MO man in action stopping to take breath — a racehorse panting 
between the heats — a ship pausing ere it plunges headlong down the moun- 
tain of the storm, and leaps on her course — are faint figures to indicate the 
abrupt and, absolute repose that overtakes the metropolis every seventh 
day. In other places the contrast between Sunday and weekday is not so 
striking — for, although the quiet may be as complete, yet the noise and 
tumulE are not so great, and the effect of the contrast, which here abso- 
lutely startles one, is wanting. If one fall asleep on a armload, the stopping 
of the cars will be pretty sure to wake him ; so the New Yorker becomes 
so accustomed to the ceaseless, the incredible din of Broadway — into whose 
rushing river-bath of dust and clamor every one dips at least twice a day — 
that the sudden, solemn, absolute silence of the Sabbath comes upwan him 
like a sweet shock, rousing into activity his higher and more contemplative 
faculties, and laying, for a time, the fierce and remorseless spirit of Busi- 
ness that during all the week has been dragging him about by the hair. 

In the narrow streets and alleys down-town, where usually the rattle of 
drays drowns out consciousness itself from your brain, and the sidewalks 
MS piled hill-high with boxes, bales, and bundles, now the footfall echoes 
and re-echoes loudly on the smoFoth-wom flag, and the long lines of lofty 
warehouses island with the prospect unbroken by drays or merchandise. 
Id Wall-street, late so fiercely crowded, and struggling each man as if for 
life, all is still as death or the desert. The Dog-man has disappeared from 
the Custom-house steps — the doomed Canary birds no longer draw up 
their miniature wheelbarrows of seeds — the Shaving Cream man has 
smoothed himself out of sight — the immutable shaving-shops down cel- 
lar have closed their cavernous jaws — and the Rotunda is as empty as 

Judge 's hat when his head is in it. The whole lower part of tile City, 

where usually one would think, from the noise and hubbub, that the conti- 
neut was rearming through a funnel, and this was the spout, is now as sileut 
and lonely as a city of the olden time deserted centuries ago by its inhab- 
itants, and left to the winds and sands of the desert. 

But in Broadway the Sabbath contrast is perhaps even greater than in 
the great marts of trade and commerce. The pavement is as still as if an 
omnibus had never rattled over it, and the bewildered sunshine goes stum- 
bling along trying to find some accustomed plate-glass window through 
which to look in upon pretty goods and prettier ladies. Before the palace- 
stores of fashion no liveried carriages are waiting, and on the walk noth- 
ing is seen but the unbent shadows of the lamp-posts. The roar and crash 
of the omnibuses is hushed, and the dust lies urisprinkled by the inevita- 
ble watering-pot on wheels, or wheel's away in little suffocating eddies, 
whither and where it will. The Large Roasted Italian Chcsnut Man has 
taken in his warming-pan and furnace, and the little girls who gell fancy 
windmills on Stewart's steps are, we hope, at Sunday- School learning their 
lessons. 

In Chatham-street and the Bowery there is a littls more life, but the 



ogle 



change is still very great and gratifying, as an unmistakable evidence of the 
generalregard in which Sunday is held by all classes of our population. 
There are, we know, a few loafers and rowdies who gather about the Five 
Points and the Hook, on the wharves, and in the grog-cellars of the by- 
streets, who neither know nor care whether it is Sunday or not. But they 
are not apparent. Their haunts are for the most part underground, and 
they do not mar the genera] serenity of a New York Sabbath. In the Bow- 
ery and Cbatham-atreet, too, the absence o£ the omnibuses is very grateful ; 
and we are sincerely sorry to hear that efforts are making to get some of 
the lioes, both in Broadway and the Bowery, to run on Sunday. We trust 
that there is, if not real morality, at least regard enough for the physical, 
welfare of mankind, among our citizens to promptly frown down any such 
attempts as these. The omnibus proprietors themselves, we are sure, do 
not wish to run their vehicles on the Sabbath ; for the increased wear and 
tear of carriages, waste of horse-flesh, &c., would mora than overbalance 
the gains. Besides, it would be cruel and oppressive in du> slight degree 
to compel the worthy and some of them Cliristian men now engaged in 
omnibus driving to either run on Sunday or lose their situations, i'tey are 
most of theni men of families, and their wives find it no easy matter to get 
along'ivith the sis dollars a week which their husbands eavR ; but if tliey. 
wew to work every day they would soon break down or die and thus leave 
their families destitute. The seventh day of rest is an indispensable neees 
sity of all laboring men — and especially those so constantl) employed, and 
in all sorts of wheaten as the oomibus-driveE. Let the Sabbath evar he 
sacred to r^t. 

If Broadway is the great artery of Hew York, throush which all tha 
blood and bloods of town must course, Nassau-street and it*, environmenta 
may be called its brain, pulsating ever with the beating of a prmting 
engine, and throwing off innumerable nerves, in the ahape of newsboy)s to 
the rest of the system., Birt on Sunday evea this is still It is true that 
t^ie Sun and Herald:, and perhaps some other papers, issue extras when a 
steams arrives on Sunday, even if there be not an item of news tmd they 
are frequently cried in the very front of the churchy dunng diune service. 
We of Th£ Tribune never do this, and our office i». never open Oft Sunday 
Early every Sabbath morning, too, tie ■voices of Sunday paper newsboys 
ar« loud and incessant for two or three hours. Most of the newspaper offi 
ces, however, are, like Tli^ Tribune, closed on the Sabbath and we beheve 
that public opinion will eventually compel all others to follow the example 
Indeed, this public opinion is rapidly becoming aware ot the great fact that 
the Sabbath, is a physical as well as spirit(ial necessity to the world and 
that, were.it not for its blessed intervals of rest and recuperation thousands 
of persons whose occupations are imcommotdy arduous or exhausting would 
either die or become insane before the prime of their yeaiB The umted aod 
unequivocal testimony of physicians, physiologists, philosophers magistrates^ 
and legislators, has been so widely diffused over the world by the beuevo 
lent labors of the American Tract Society and other rehgious matitutiona 
that all &lass.fls of the community are becoming familiar with them- And 
should these lines fall into the hands of any man, woman or child who has 
not yet. become convinced that life and health are deeply interested in ob 
serying the Sabt-'ath. we would earnestly advise him or her to go to the 
Amencan Tract Society's office, 150 Nassau- street, and procure " The Sab- 



i by Google 



SUNDAY IW NEW YORK. 99 

batti Maaual," by Be?. Justin Edwards — one of the most perspicuous, 
complete, and eloquent works au the Sabbath we have ever read. They 
will also fiud peculiarly interesting, in relation to this subject, tracts 8, 20, 
118, IG3, 334, 886, 415, Hi. and 502. 

But to return to New York on Sunday. If from what we have said, j-ou 
oondude that signs of Ufe and amniati9n are wanting throughout tho Sab- 
bath, you are greatly mislalten. We spoke of the middle of the day. But 
in the morniag at nine o'clock, punctual as an eclipse of the moon or a man 
to whom you have promised money, the Sunday-School bells begin to ring 
from a thousand steeples — and, despite the ill-natured remarks of people 
who are ashamed of themselves for hating the Sabbath' and its institutions^ 
we always find it most delightful music— with more heart and soul and 
meaning in it than all the caterwaulini to which the walls of the Tabernacle 
have ever resounded. ^ 

Then, like troops of fairies summoned by the sound of a familiar bell, 
bright-faced children itj their fresh and pretty Sunday gowns and jackets, 
swarm the streats, ^nd take their way to Sunday-School—^ place whose 
charm it is di^ult to describe, but most beautiful to acknowledge and feel. 
Never in all our wide experience among children — and we have known and 
loved thousands of them — have we found a boy or girl accustomed to at- 
tend Sunday-School, who did not feel it a pleasure to go there, and a real 
misfortune to be compelled, by any unforeseen ev*nt., to stay away. 
Through rain and sunshine, in Summer and Winter, off they go, as happy , 
as young lambs, and also as innocent and as- beautiful — ^for all children are 
beautiful. 

In another hour and a half comes church — snd then, if you would see 
how maay peep Sen? Ypiit out-<(f-door¥ (Mfi bold, gofer look offt, or join 
the crowd, and observe, as you are gently urged along by the force of the 
current into which you have dropped. Such a procession of l;iea«tifuj la- 
dies and attentive ^valiers cannot be seen elsewhere nor at any ot^or tjiae. 
There, too, the staid matron ' leaning upon the arm of h^ grayTrhead^d bu^ 
still stalwart husband, as they march proudly in front of their children a^T 
grandchildren, form picturesque and pleasbg groups ; while here and there 
some fond couple, still lingering within the enchanted atmosphere of the 
honeymoon, move stealthily along, their faces beaming w^ happiness. 
And how different the aspect and bearing of the throng frop the ntd§ 
crowds that rush aad jostle each other on the walk in weekdays ! 8iir;ely 
it is a blessed thing that the calm, love-inspiriag Sabbatic cpmes «nce a 
weet to reunite the scattered family, and gather up the broken ]ii*is of- do- 
mestic affection, that sweetest ^nd most blessed tie of earth. It is difficult 
3)pt to believe that, without the Sabbath, society wftuld inevitably retrograde 
to Ij^rearms. 

A? soon as evening sets in, the City undergoes a change sudden and gre^Fr. 
as magic. Broadway, which all day save church-hours has been so lonely* 
and deserted, now swims wilt a dense crowd of men and women wf do- 
not, through tlie week, find leisure for a promenade. The great bulk of 
them are servant-girls, with their beaux and brothers, lovers and friends, 
who wait eagerly through the whole week for the setting of the Sabbath 
sun, that they may rush into the streets, and for a few hours enjoy the lux- 
ury of being free to do as they please. The bookfolders, the seamstresses, j 
the fly-girls, the type-rubbera, the straw-braidera, — all the working girls 



100 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

from all parts of the City and every occupation, — have also found third 
sweethearts, and are out for a promenade in Broadway. They look fresher 
and walk more eagerly, and with far more energy and aplomb than the 
weekday loungers and idlers in our fashionable thoroughfare ; and every 
face wears an expression of determination to make the most of the brief 
hour of recreation which is permitted to alt classes. Tfae sidewalk gives 
out new echoes — ^unaccustomed dialects break their necks agtfinst the un- 
heeding window-shatters of the closed shops, and Broadway is no longer 
but a continuation, a suburb, of the Bowery. Far into the night thousands 
of footsteps patter upon the pavement, and the hum of mingling voices 
comes over the ledge of our far-up window like the music of the distant 
Burf. At length, one -by one, the few lights along the street disappear — 
the noise of falling feet grows more and more interrupted— conversation 
and strange bursts of laughter come less frequently and then cease en- 
tirely — the moonlight streams cold and glistening across the flag-atones — 
midnight sounds echoingly from steeple to steeple — and Sunday in New 
York is over. 



Slice IIVII.— BEHIND THE SCENES. 

Oun previous article on Theatres did not go behind the scenes, nor did it 
contain but a passing allusion to what was enacting upon the stage for the 
Alevation and refinement of the public — or, as it is expressed on the drop- 
curtain, 

" To raise the genuine, and lo mend the heart." 

We now propose to penetrate* a little farther into the mysteries of the 
stage and the Green-Eoom, and see the. practical effects of the drama, as 
exhibited in the hves, character, and associations of those engaged in this 
moral and ennobling profession. In doing this we utterly disclaim any in- 
tention of indulging in the remotest personality. Combining the results of 
personal knowledge and observation, extended over a number of years, and . 
in theatrical estabBshmenta of various grades, we shall speak only in general 
terms of general evils. If our remarks offend those who are engaged in 
the theatrical profession, it will be simply because they are true. We wish 
to say also, that there are of course many exceptions to the picture we draw, 
and draw from Ufe. We know many noble men and women whose great 
strength of character and purity of heart have enabled them to pass un- 
scathed through the ordeal of the stage, and upon whose name calumny 
has never breathed. It will be enough to mention Macerate, our own 
FoRBEST, Mrs. Charles Kban, Mrs. Mason, to remind the reader that the 
stage has not yet lost all grace, and to inspire a hope in its ultimate purify- 
cation and restoration as a cc^servitor of public morals and one of the 
most vivid exponents of poetry and exalted passion. Many names of less 



..Google 



BEHIND THE SCENES. lOl 

renown also occur to us, both of men and women, whose possessors would 
adorn any walk of. life, and are as pure as their intellects are cultivated ; 
but a partial catalogue would only be injustice to those wlio should be 
omitted, and-a complete one is of course impracticable. We paint classes, 
and institutions as they appear in the general ; and the very exceptions to 
what we shall have to say of the dramatic profession, are those who will 
best know and feel its general truth. 

In the first place let ua stop to deny, in the most unqualified terms, the 
morality of the lessons generally inculcated by the stage. So far from this 
a very great majority of all the standard plays and farces on the stage de- 
pend mostly for their piquancy and their power of interesting an audience, 
upon intrigues with married women, elopements, seductions, bribery, cheat- 
ing, and fraud of every description — set off with a liberal allowance of 
double entendre, broad indecency, (which the license of the performer 
generally converts into positive obscenity,) and a general prevalence of 
profanity better becoming the inmates of a prison or Gregory than ladies 
and gentlemen. Stage costume, too, whenever there is half a chance, is 
usually made as immodest and lascivious as possible ; and a freedom and 
impropriety of demeanor prevails among the characters of the piece, which 
would be kicked out of private society, the instant it should have the au- 
dacity to make its appearance there. In a word, the whole end, aim, and 
effort of a great majority of plays, farces, and ballets presented on the stage 
is to excite the animal passions and gratify the lowest and most depraved 
of human tastes. It is true that now and then a small chunk of sentiment 
or patriotism or philanthropy is thrown in awkwardly among the crudities 
and immoralities of the scene — but it evidently has no business there, and 
hastens to get its little round of applause and get itself forgotten as soon as 
possible. At many of the smaller theatres things have been carried to an 
outrageous pass — until the stage became Uttle better than a brothel turned 
inside out, and the whole character of the performances was so baldly filthy 
and indecent as to be absolutely safe from description. We appeal to the 
respectable married gentlemen Above Bleecker, whom we often see poking 
slyly about the Olympic and Chatham, to answer us candidly. Would you, 
on any consideration, take your wives and daughters to these places, or 
have them exactly aware of what yousee and bear there — ay, andrfo there? 

But it is behind the scenes that the beauties of the drama {we don't 
mean the supernumeraries and ballet-girls) are to be seen. The great 
star of the evening, whose fame fills the columns of several enlightened and 
impartial journals at twenty dollars a week, has perhaps a wife and half a 
dozen children in Europe, while in this country (having but recently 
arrived) he has but a wife and one child. He will improve, however, as 
he goes on ; and if, before the yem- is out, he have not a wife in every 
principal city in the Union, it will not be because the code of the drama 
has any objection to mterpose to such an arrangement, nor because the 
fastidious Public, who faints at sight of a piano without pantalettes, is at 
all concerned about the morals of its favorite. These plain statements will 
doubtless be howled at by many members of the profession, as well as their 
toadies and hangers-on, whose only happy moments are when they are eat- 
ing or drinking with an actor, trying to catch the eye of an acquaintance 
on the stage while the play is going on, or making love to a stout-armed 
actress, who says "I seen you in the second tier," and whose face is trowel- 



;yGooglc 



102 



NEW YORK IN SLICES. 



led over with chalk mats-, tipped off with a vermilion ^ose in the middlBof 
each cheek. But it was absolutely requisite to our plan to malfe these dis- 
agreeable disclosures. It is only by its. effect upon those Eli^aged in it 
that we can judge whether any occupation is wholesome or not ; and having 
undertaken to dissect New York, slice by slice— as the old fogies used to 
demonstrate the human brain — how could we justify ourselves to our own 
conscience if we were to gloss over and whitewash things as we went along? 
We assert, then, that it is very rarely that a woman can connect herself for 
life with the theatrical profession and maintain her reputation — even 
whether she deserves it or not ; and this is the most conclusive evidence 
of the foul and noxious moral atmosphere that surrounds the stage 

One of the most noteworthy things one sees behind the scenes in some 
theatrical establishments, is the number of elderly, igray-headed, and dilate 
dated old codgers watching at the side-wings, exploring up and down the 
dark vistaa that flank the stage, breaking their shins over.the attributes of 
the carpenter and property-man, and hanging ahout the Green-Room look 
incT wistfully tn to tilt greedily-coveted paradise. These gentlemen are 
" patrons of the drama \" They like to have their names d^jpear conspire 
ously in complhnentary benefit arrangements, while they themsehea love 
to be seen behind the scenes, bowing to kings with pasteboard crowns and 
a pine stick wrapped in foolscap for a scepter ; and absolutely trembling 
with happiness at a smile from a countess in calico, or a sqaeMe of the hand 
from a fairy of ten stone in pink legs and book muslin. What such ndicu 
lous old animals live for, we have never been able satisfactorily to determine 
although, doubtless, like monkeys and small-poLato politicians, theyhaie 
their appointed end. 

The Green-Room is a place respecting which the most erroneous and 
exaggerated ideas have been formed. It is simply a large, barnish looking 
room, generally painted yellow, (the green is in those who have a hankering 
after it,) meanly and scantily furnished with seats, and a large board hung 
against the wall, covered with innumerable bits of wafery paper the top 
one of which contains the east of the performance. The only au^mehtal 
article in the room (saving the ladies' presence) is a lai^e swing mirror in 
which the female performers practise their attitudes and see whether tht,ir 
atirts are disposed with an eloquence calculated to captivate the hearts of 
the spectators. To this room, actors and actresses resort during the inter 
vah in which they are not wanted on the stage. Some look o^or their 
parts, endeavoring to ret^n a line or two of the author as they rush upon 
the st^e. Some dispute about the relative merits of this or that actor 
where Mrs. So-and-so. made her first appearance, or where she was plavmg 
in such-and-such a year. This, repeated over and over again every night 
in the year, forma the staple of the conversation and incident of thf Green 
Boom. 

Such is a fair and candid picture of the characters and carryings-on in 
many of our popular theatres.— Such members of the company aa do not 
come under the delineations we have made, keep themselves aloof from 
their fellow professionals, remain in their own dressing-rooms, Sn^ only leave 
them when it is necessary to make their appearance on the stage. They 
are almost universally hated, ridiculed, and despised by the rest of the 
company. . ■ ■ .1, 

It gives us sincere pleasure to conclude this sketch by stating that m the 



THE NEWSBOYS. 103 

new establishments, the Broadway Theatre, and ^e Aator-pkoe Opera- 
Hou^ — as well us the pretty little bijou hox of Mr. Burton in Chambers- 
Btreet — we think we perceive UnniistakBble indications of animproving state 
of things in the drama, corresponding to the higher and purer moral re- 
quirements of the age. W« trust that the new manager of the old Park 
Theatre will also tare the courage, as he nnqueBtJonably has the trebly, 
to wrest that establishment from the disgrace which attaches to too many 
theatres, and to place it upon a better and firmer footii^ than it ever at- 
tained even in its most prosperous days. Let the rule be imperative — 
banish utterly every facility for grog'drinkrag within the. walls of the 
theatre, and admit no woman unaccompanied by a gentleman. These sim- 
ple reforms would do much to rescue the stage, hy improving the shark- 
ter of the audience, and would be the hopeful forerunner of stijl better 
tlnngs. 



Sliee XXVIIl— THE NEWSBOYS, 

Thb Newsboys a'reSuItof the modem tiviilaatidn, Q-Mece and Rome, 
nor yet Egypt, whence came Ko all tbe world Letters, Mathsmatics, and 
Mummies, with ail their boasts — and they were fond enough of boaatine — 
could not brag of the Newsboy. Of King Cheops much has been said^tfl^t 
hte been forgotten 1 and all that is positively known respecting htm is that 
'he lived and died and left a great three-cornered pile of rocks behind, or 
rather above him. But of Kitw Mark McGtiire, the Sovereign of the News- 
boys, we know something much better than pyramids. He is a Prince who 
exacts the most implicit obedience from his turbulent subjects, and whose 
royal labors are exclusively confined to the enlightenment of the world. 
Whenever a vessel arrives with intelligence ' from tbe realms of his sister 
sovereign Victoria, or that wilful, capricious Republic of France, His Ma- 
ieaty the King of Nassau-Street, attended by his Prime Minister, Tommy 
Kyan; his Secretary of State, Greek; and all the under Officers of the 
Court, comes forth in state ; while the whole community are in the utmost 
CTchement respecting their movements. 

The genuine Newsboy, in his full development and activity, does not 
exist, except in New York. Your Philadelphia Newsboy, now, has a sort 
of slow-and-easy, deliberate sing-song, whicli inspires you with any thing 
but a desire to read the news. But in New York, the quick, snapping cry, 
uttered while under a full run, and trailing along like the smolfe of a steam- 
pipe with the boat at the top of her speed, communicates a sort of excite- 
ment to the dullest laggard in the street, and sets the whole city in a state 
of effervescence directfy. The Newsboy is the pearlash dropped into the 
soar cider of everyday life, making it hiss and bubble with an importance 
not its own. Without him, the Archimedean lever, the Press, would lose 
much of its power and half its activity. He is the antenna* which feel, and 



lostedbyGoOl^lC 



104 NEW YORK IN SLICKS. 

forewarn the community of approaching news — the taster of the great cup 
of Newspaperism, which everybody quafia. Formerly the Newsboy cried 
the leading features of liis news — but he found that many hundreds did not 
care to hear any more, and passed on without buying. So now he has 
become chary of hb crying, and gives as httle as possible of the purport of 
his budget. If you stop him and ouch what is the news, you maiy get a 
civil answer — but we would advise you not to rely too much on the accu- 
racy of the intelligence. If you would have the news, fork over your pen- 
nies for an Extra Thirty, and then read it honestly, and with a clear con- 

We have never made the attempt to count the Newsboys, but, we sup- 
pose, from a general observation of them in all their haunts and localities, 
that there are about three hundred regularly and permanently on duty — 
increased by fifty or more on. extraordinary occasions. When the first 
Newsboy appeared, or where he came from, no man has yet told ; we sup- 
pose, as to his parentage, he was the son of an Oysterman, from whom he 
derived his voice, and the free and self-possessed manner with which he 
employs it in the street. 

In his dreas, he does not affect the latest fashions. — No Newsboy, no 
legitimate Newsboy, has ever been seen in a whole suit. The uniform of 
his Craft is a slouched cloth cap, dilapidated roundabout and breeches, no 
shoes or stockings, and a dirty face with hands to match. 

Notwithstanding the diligent and. elaborate search we have instituted, 
we have not been able to ascertain where the Newsboy has furnished him- 
self with his dress. We have inched at all the Tailors : Not one of them 
is Tailor to the Newsboys. At the slop-shops they work for the Swlors, 
not for the Newsboys. At the second-hand Clothes -Dealers in Chatham- 
street, they do not recollect to have ever had a Newsboy for a customer. 
Some have supposed their rigs, or fit-outs, are thrown into the street over 

X':, by unseen hands, and picked up early in the morning by the Boys. 
ra, that they grow upon the Newsboys by degrees, like moss about 
tree-trunks ; that one day a pair of trousers comes, the next week what 
they call a coat, and then, as the season advances, an old cloth cap. For 
ourselves, we believe these suits have descended to the 19th Century from 
a remote antiquity ; that they are fragments of the costume of a remote 
period, artfully reconstructed ; and it is not impossible (and the heathen 
manner in which they are freely riddled gives plausibility to the conjecture) 
that some of them have figured in the Crusades. Fmd us the Tailor who 
makes the Newsboy's Uniform, and we will fell you when the American 
Union is going to be dissolved. 

We are afraid Tom Newsboy is a trifle profligate ; he swears, we know, 
freely; drinks, fights, and very often "stays out all night. This last we 
must not dwell on too strongly as a vice, for it is often a necessity. Tom 
having no home to go to, ana not thinking it worth while to l>e ^t a chaise 
for lodgings, takes up his quarters for the night in a box or bunk, under a 
stoop or in an entryway, where half a dozen of them frequently holdall to- 
gether, heads and points, with a shaggy dog in their midst, as good a fel- 
low as any of them, 

Tom indulges too in games of Chance, and is scarcely ever without dice, 
small cards, and other implements of hazard in his pocket. We believe he 
has some games peculiar to himself, of his own devising. He pitches pen- 



ibyGooglc 



THE NEWSBOYS. ]05 

nies sometimes, like other boys, or plays at marbles ; but tbis he holds to 
be a small business. In general he disdains Ihe common sports of youth, 
and rifles on the wing into a loftier region of its own. 

The most extraordinary feature, perhaps, (ti the whole history of the 
Newsboy, is his profound passion for the Theatre. Tiiia is one of the 
earliest uses to which he devotes his firsfeamings. The Chatham or the 
Olympic has, always, the first-fruits. At the very opening of the doors he 
throws himself into the pit, and with judicial steadiness watches the pro- 
gress of the piece. Ho generally' takoa possession of the middle of the 
benches : many of them, by ioscnbing their names thereupon with a knife, 
securing them against invasion, and occupying them (as they suppose) by 
as good a right, and with more regularity nightly, than the rich frequenters 
of Grace Church and St. Patrick's, their pews, with their names emblazon- 
ed on polished plates, at an annual rent of five hundred dollars the pew. 

He affects (in his dramas) thunder and lightning, long-swords, casques, 
and black- whiskered villains, with mysterious eiits and entrances, in prefer- 
ence to everyday life. In bloody and violent death-scenet he revels like a 
little Pirate. There was a^Mr. Kirby — he is gone now, poor fellow — ^we 
hope he passed into the other world at the R. H, door ! — who had^eat 
favor among the Newsboys, hy his convulsive Mid awful manner of yielding 
up the ghost on the Stage. Many boys, whose engagements did not per- 
mit an entire attendance, have paid the full price to be in at one of Kirby's 
death-struggles. They were unquestionably the most ciagnifieent times 
{of their Wnd) ever seen in this countiy. The Newsboys, however, held 
the IsCe Mr. ^iiby to a strict account. If he omitted a single groan or dis- 
tortion of feature, there was a general howl of disapprobation through the 
Pit, and that Actor was compelled, more than once, to go through the 
death-struggle a seeoad and even a third time, till it satisfied the high re- 
quirements of these young censors. 

Not only in his keen judgment in such questions of Art, but in all News- 
boy accomplishments, the New York practitioner, compared with the News- 
boys of other Cities, takes the lead by several lengths : in speed of foot, 
power of vociferation, rapidity of utterance, force of character — in fact, like 
every thing New York, he is at the head of his class. After the Theatre, 
the chief luxury of the Newsboy is, in common, a glass or half a dozen 
glasses of a crimson-whity mixture, supposed to be or to stand for ice-cream ; 
and, in winter, an equal number of cups of gloomy coffee, at a penny a cup, 
as the other is a penny a glass. No wonder they have customs and usages 
of their own ; for thb is, certainly, a peculiar Buenos, which summons 
forth young boys, mere lads, at all hours, associating them in a manner 
with the mighty Press, at that early time of life, and cramming their 
pockets with silver, more spending- money than the richest merchant's son, 
which tbey may disburse, when, how, and, where they desire, without ac- 
countability to any one. They often make two and three dollars from a 
Steamer's "Extra," in an hour; selling from fifty to one hundred and fifty 
papers, at a heavy advance on first cost. It is the duty of the Newsboy to 
watch the Press, as a cat watches a mouse ; to be on hand at all hours, 
seasonable and unseasonable, for foreign or domestic news of importance, 
as much as the Editor or Proprietor of the Journal. At the moment of 
delivery, he seizes the reeking paper, and rushing forth like one distracted, 
thty fill all the streets of the city, far and near, in an conceivably short 



.yGoOgIc 



lOS NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

Bpitee of time, with their bold and startling cries.— These are not always 'to ; i 
be taken as Gospel. tithe" sometimes bring on a Rei'olution improraptti, 1 
«iid depose a King -without notice. Agents certain "members of the Royal ' ' 
Families of Em-ope, theyseem to cherish a bitter spite. We believe the ■ 
Newsboys itched for months to announce the deposition or abdication of 
Louis Philippe;: As much might have iDeen inferred from the fervor— =the 
more than fervor, the fury — with which they bellowed oilt his downfall 
when (at last) it did come. We think, as a "body, they -would announce 
the 'flight of Prince Albert and Queen Victoria, and the disruption Of the 
Brii^ Empire, with the greatest satisfaction. As in all coramunities 'fhb«-e 
are leaders, so there are Chief H^ewsboys, or Poremen ; small Capitalists, 
who famish the papers to Use boys, requiring an account at night, imd-^- 
lowing them a part of the profits, or reasonable wages. It is to these, of 
whom King Mark McGuire is the Chief, that the "bursted-up" boys apply, 
to be set up again in business, when by improvidence. or ne^ect.'ttiey have 
become insolvent. — The NtSwsboys, for the sake of the fresh air, somedtdes 
make short trips down East, oJ to Albany, jn the Steamboats, or on tte 
Cai« between 'tiie Cities, getting a free passage (with a Newspaper or two 
to the ClSrir or Conductor) and selling what they can by the way. The 
Olty is, however, their main-stay. 

We hive been told that Newsboys have been seen at Cock-fights, In 
back-yards and sotiterraneaii places about fhe City ; and that they have 
even figtwed -as owners of Game-fowls. This we do not believe. It's a 
scandal "put in Circulation by the enemies of the brotherhood. That they 
■swieBr, fight, cheat, and run wild at night, -we have frankly admitted, 'tut 
■fte 'Cock-fights we deny. We have a friendship for the Order, tind *e 
■must make a stand somewhere. It has also heen asserted (from some 
touches of grandeur we have noticed glimmering out from among his rags — 
■me can believe" this) that in the pride of his spirit, and in the dignity of his 
itttimate connection with the Public Journals, two or three Newsboys have 
been knownto club ti^ther and pni-chase, at auction, a horse and wagon 
—both of light build-— (value of the outfit, mcluding harness, taii-boarti, 
Ac, $4.25) with which they have heen seen sporting fai afternoon rides on : 
the Avenue, like so many young gentlemen of fortune. We wonder 
whether it has ever occurred to any Newsboy of reflecting turn, what a ■ 
mighty instrument for good or evil, he has in that voice of his — the peace ■ 
of how'many families he has broken or cheered by his loud and long cry of 
Steamer or Packet— what mischief he has wrought by false alarms — how 
many ears have been straitened to catch its far-off sound, whose all of weal 
or wo in this life, hung suspended on the Newsboy's breath. 
\ A piece of advice we shall venture, as the friends of these young gentle- 
men ; If the passion is strong upon them to dabble in Literature, let them 
stick to the legitimate busmess of the Morning and Evening Newspapers, 
regular and extra, and not allow themselves to be seduced by grown men 
(who should have more sense and more self-respect) to deal in dirty Preened 
Novels, and filthy Compositions of home manufacture, on a similar model. 
Let them shun the contraband sale of obscene books and prints, as they 
"Would red-hot coals of fire ; which would bum up in them every good 
principle, and reduce them to a sapless, ashy, and worthless old i^. W 
can imagine no more pitiful or revolting sight than one of these childre 
under the promptings of some old fiend in mischief from behind his " r 



THE PATENT MEDI,piNE MEN, 107 

spectable connter, sn^Mng about the Hotels, Steamboat Landings, and 
Public Parka having concealed in his bofiom tbe seeds of ruin, and stealthily 
seeking to cast them ion the laps of others. God must weep and dewls 
gnu when poiSoo is so diffused with a double damnation, killing the soul 
of seller and buyer with a subtle and fetal power. Boys ! you had better 
jump into a Furnace at white-heat, than to have any thing more to do with 
this low lod nasty traffic ! Stick to the Newspapers ! 

What kind of citizens these Newsboys will make— what kind of creatures 
will spnog from these mixed elements of turmoil, street-running, precocious 
activity of body and mind, and precocious ' prof osion of cash, no one tan 
guess, for the system — started some ten years since — has ncft been long 
enough m operation to bring any of them of ^e. Our best wishes are 
with the Boys 



Slice XXII.-THE PAfElitT liEWCfflE MEN. 

We approach this subject with a slight qualm of conscience — ^to le^Tio- 
tbmg of tbe 'stomach--^ignorant of what sort of pill may be our potion for 
danng to tbbcliile With these liberal pl-escriptiohists of the constitution, nor 
how they will take" the'Sosfe We are pKittbg up for^heln. 

It is quite customary to laugh "at the Patent Medicine Men — but on the 
principle that they laugh best who laugh last, we think the Doctors, as 
usual have quite the best end of the bargain. Of course, in treating of the 
Patent Medicme makers, we have no intention of going into the "regulars" 
— although if the truth were known we doubt not that their saddlebags 
and vidls would be found to coffee^ quite as many nostrums as the big- 
labelled bottles of Our " patent" friends. After all, and admitting that this 
business has a good deal of quackery in it, yet there must be some virtues 
in many of the remfed^es, or they never could have reached such imniense 
popularity among all classes of the community, high and low, rich and 
poor old and yoUng, learned and ignorant, as they have done. Indeed, if 
the ventabie Tnbune Slic* himself were compelled to choose between the 

regular and the " patent" practices — which the God of Health mercifully 
forbid' — he would be sorely puzzled for a decision. It -would be something 
hke having to decide between hang^ng-and drowning. 

Altogether it would seem that the Patent Medicine business is as respect- 
able and as profitable as any other occupation and calling, and probably 
doesn t do ^ny more harm, at the worst, than the " regular" profession. 
We have only to say to our readers, that, in purchasing their Patent Medi- 
cines they should remember that all is not gold that shines, and that those 
who make Th. most noise have very often the least merit. 

The Patent Medicine business is much overdone, even to an extent beyond 
almost any other. A few having realized a fortune, hundreds — thousands 
hate rushed into it and lost the little means they expected would so rapidly 
accumulate It is ah' uncommonly flattering battiness considering altme 
the actual cost of the stock ; hence thousands have been rashly invested m 



lo.ledL,Vjt>(.)l^lc 



108 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

the 'manufacture and distribution of remediea without Munting- tlie tremen- 
dous cost of popularity : and it is obvious, that unless large sales are made, 
ruin will follow ; so that, by a safe calculation, it is believed ninety in every 
hundred fail, who undertake the business. 

The manner of doing this remarkable business is invariably to manufacture 
large quantities, and establish agencies in every part of the country; it be- 
ing almost without exception a commission business, and this the only means 
of extending it. Of course, without a very large capital, nothing of late 
years can be done to eompete with the already established remedies. 

Townshend labored two years and accomplished nothing. Finally, 
Mr. Clapp, of Albany, who is wealthy, joined lura, investing ample means, 
since which the Sarsaparilla era soon reached its zenitli. But as every 
thing must have its day, it is rapidly declining. 

Many haVe been deluded into the belief that to "come out largely" 
would bring customers from the four parts of the country, and have soon 
run oat every dollar paying advertisements ; then they fill the papers 
with "wants" like this; — "Wanted — one thousand dollars, with a partner 
to engage in a business in which $5000 can be made in a month," &a., Ac. 
Despairing of ever obtaining a livelihood by such precarious means, they 
either go to work at something useful, or engage ia a more desperate effort 
to bmnbug the sick. 

Nor is it now a simple matter to' introduce a new curative, as besides the 
various popular nostrums, hundreds of respectable physicians in all parts of 
the countiy, (Mtd small druggists,) seeing such a demand for Patent Medi- 
cines, and knowing that if they did not, others would, sell, have made up 
" cure-alls," and distributed them in their vicinity ; but as they do not un- 
derstand the business, and have but little capital, half of them resume their 
legitimate profession . 

When Dr. Brandreth began, a medicine could more easily work its way 
to fame with less means, as competition was not so strong as to keep it 
back ; but even then without skill none could succeed. 

As a body there is equal talent engaged in this business to any other. 
It is noticed that medicines which are the most extensively advertised by 
fulsome laudations, as rapidly decline, as they go up ; the proprietors 
thinking if they make money at all they will do it soon. Others, who have 
confidence in the intrinsic value of their remedies, pursue a different course, 
fearing that great excitement and exag^ration will impair the confidence of 
the public, and shorten their popularity. With ability, (and without this 
the best medicine will go down, or rather will not go up,) they push to a 
great estent by the aid of capital, and they gain in reputation and keep 
what they have. Among this class Dr. Q. Benj. Smith's " Sugar-coated 
Indian Vegetable Pills" (of which General Taylor has spoken higlily) stand 
pre-eminent. Without making any excitement, they were rapidly put out 
over the United States and Canada four or five years ago, and they have 
since been gradually pushed and thoroughly established, by a system of 
^encies, into every httle village. If it be any evidence of a good medicine 
that no one calls it a humbug, then these Pills stand high, for such a charge 
baa yet to be made- against tiem. At all events they have a large sale and 
are managed with a degree of respectability not common to this branch of 
trade. 

Dr. Sherman's medicines, although they have gone down, enabled him to 



(b, Google 



THE PATENT MEDICINE MEN. 109 

build up-town, and he finally got iip a Panorama for eidiibiUon. Toms- 
bend is supposed to be realizing a fortune ; and Dr. Moffat's medicines are 
still a source of some revenue, as also Dr. Brandreth's. while each are 
variously eng^ed in other speculations, which they are enabled to carry on 
upon the fruits of the Patent Medicine business. 

We copy the following from a late number of a medical paper : — 

" When a Physician so far forgets tl^e feelings of humanity that should 
always predominate in his practice, and uses his profession as a cloak to 
amass a fortune, he generally accomplishes his object, like Dr. Mosbison of 
London, the inventor of the ' Hygiene Pills.' These Pills were put up in 
packages of three boxes each, numbered one, two, and threg, and to be 
taken in regular order ; holding out the impression that they cont«ned three 
different kinds of medicine. These Pills became at one time quite popular 
in the United States, till the general ^^ent's sale in New England was one 
hundred dollars a day, when he, becoming an extensive counterfeiter of 
them, had to leave the place. It was afterwards proved that these Pills 
were made in New York, and that number one, two, and three, were all the 
same article. The medical faculty came out in London and stated that 
Mr. Morrison was destroying much life by the recommendation of such 
quantities of medicme. He prosecuted the faculty for libel, and in every 
instance was beaten. In fifteen years he amassed a princely fortune, built 
himself a palace with the hope of enjoying his wealth, but an overruling 
Providence has called him to that bourne from whence no traveller retinue, 
there to give an account of his doings, and to meet those from whom he 
had extorted much of his wealth. 

Db. Brandreth came out here from London, about five years after 
Morrison's Pills became popular, and established the sale of his Pills, adopt- 
ing Morrison's plan of recommending every one to take his Pills in great 
quantities, and he has accumulated a fortune. He gave the agency in 
Pennsylvania to Mr. Wright, a brother Englishman, for a number of years ; 
when his sales became very extensive he got up a counterfeit, which caused 
Mr. Brandreth to tAke away tite 4geb&y from him, when he changed the 
name of the counterfeit Pills and called them " Indian Vegetable Pills," 
and got a number of Brandreth's TravelUng Agents to put them out in the 
country. Another Englishman got up a Pill called " Old Parr's," stating 
that he lived one hundred and fifty years on his Pills. The story was too 
absurd to be believed, and they found little or no sale. There are quite a 
number of other Pills pretending to come out from Europe, but are made 
ion the United States, and have proved a failure. 

Several Physicians have adopted the course of Morrison of London by 
manufacturing many articles to be taken for the same complaint. A Phy- 
sician located himself in Broadway, New York, issues his handbills month- 
lie, stating the day he would be in Boston, Lowell, Providence, Fall River, 
New Beflord, Norwich Town, New York, Troy, Albany, and Hudson, for 
consultation, gratis. 

The secret of this Doctor's success, has grown solely out of his vituperate- 
tions against the medical faculty ; branding them with ignorance, as pos- 
sessing no medical skill, intended to be understood by the afflicted ; that 
they all go in for making the most money out of the sick, except himself, 
who is the only " Good' Samaritan," and filled ^Th. philanthropy for the 
distressed. Whilst the truth is, the moat of his money is wrung out of the 



ibyGoogIc 



no 



NEW YORK IN SLICES 



poor, who too often have to cAtain through charity the means to purchase 
hi» extravagant medicinea ; wBtet he tells thepi in all cases, they have tha 
U»er complaint— that being curable — when he knows they are in a coq- 
sumplion and no relief can be had for them. 

It is to be regretted that such a large portion of our classical scholara ran 
into the medical profession, as our large cities are crowded, and there are ten 
to do the practice that was done formerly by one ; which has induced many 
to adopt the method pf traveling from place to place, artd give adv-ice 
gratis, but charge extravagantly for their medicines, and relying upMi ex- 
citement for their practice, as the opportunities to pronounce them sick, 
when little or notlung ails them, is too gr.^t to be resisted ; and it would 
be well for persons to listen to these trsYelling Doctors with ears both open, 
hut with their hands on their pockets, for fear their money may be mag- 
nefized from them, as these traveling Doctors are constantly increasing, 
and receive encouragement from persons attending their lectures, and other 
various modes of making their appearance known." 

A distinguished writer on health once said, "Much as I place my trust 
in diet and regimen, I bow with submission to the noble art of healing, and 
cling to it for succor." I6 is good far us to be a little sick occasionally^ for 

" Who never aila, health nevOT knows." 
And it verily appears that health can only be properly estimated when 
sickness comes upon us. It, is well that pain admonishes us early, when 
we have violated nature's simplest laws ; and in conclusion, let me advise the 
reader to study the best mode of living to avoid quackery in all shapes,; 

" Learn to suffer what you cannot shim." 



SSee Xn— BALLS AKD BELLES OF TAMMANY 
HALL. 




odious reader, now that we have taken 
a pretty wide range through the City, 
sKcing off here and there a chip or a frag- 
ment as we went along and endeavor 
ing 30 to show o someth nag of who t 
C vilizalion can produce when t t cps tsp 
best — -uid tsp worse — t is t me that we 
sbo Id take a ) ttle nnoeent recreat on 
Hard work and b tter scenes have we 
passed thro h n the e o u' rambles yet 
e er contemplating some good to poor 
human nature Now let us repose awh le 
and look m upon lighter and more joy 
ous scenes Because the w rid l bo 
affl cted with fo 1 diseases w Th. d re suf 



(b, Google 



BALLS AND BELLES OF TAMMANY HALL. m 

fearing, and hopeless crimes, we are nt. to suppose that there is noth- 
ing gay and bright and happy, left for us to contemplate. Therefore, dear 
reader, whoever thou, aj-t — grare and earnest, with mouth and eyes agape 
for statistics of trade or quotations of stock ; light and trifling as the hopes 
and au of youth, or bright and halmy as the blue eye and white bosom 
of young maidenhood-— whoever thou art that hast gone with us through 
these free penefllings of scenes and character in this great, dirty, blustering, 
glorious, ill-lighted, aristocratic, squalid, rich, wicked, and magnificent me- 
tropolis — <yd you ever go to a ball at Tammany HaH? H not, then are 
jou, by inexpressibly long odds, the greeaest greenhorn in the Universe — 
greener than green ointment or the man that bid off a gdd lever watch 
yesterday in Broadway for tea dollars. But remain in thi^ wretched- state 
no longer. The season is now fast coming on for these grand flare-ups, 
and we shall have one at least every night. You can find them at all 
prices, from the aristocratic affair of the Democratic General Committee, at 
which Vice President Dallas and champagne are the order au the night, to 
the dollar jubilee of "No. -^," with its bouncing b'h(^ plump and 
bright-eyed girls, and the modest WH of fare in the restaurant. In a few 
weeks those fearful blood-red globes upon the balcony will stream their 
crimson Ulster into the very eyes of the night, — through the half uncertain- 
ed windows will he caught dreary glimpses of graceful w Herculean forms, 
and across the browu and breezy Park will float the music — mellowed by 
the distance and a bath in the keen and sparking night sut — of three fid- 
dles, two horns, a trombone, and a wry-necked piccolo. Let us therefore 
anticipate a little the gay time that is to come, and describe in advance 
some of Th.«. merry scenes which will jump into existence behind those 
gleaming, Sery balls of Kght, 
" ■ ■ ■ safhui 



Dancing is a universal human instinct; and Gall and Spurrfieim — who 
by the way stole their theory from Swedenborg — committed n grave error 
in not assigning it a distinctive bump in the cranium. In women the organ 
is almost away "ai^ve," while with meu it exists in a dorataut state and 
depends very much on "circumstances" for its exercise and development. 
It is remarkable, too, that all olMBes of women dance with nearly equal 
grace and ease, while with men there are few of any grade who ever rise to 
mediocrity in the bewitching art. Men have a thousand other ways — and 
most of them worse ones — of getting rid of their superb^ident excitability 
and animal spirits, while with women dancing is every thing- A woman 
dances into tove and dances out of it. She fixes her destiny for life in the 

fiancees of a quadrille ; and Hie faaeinationa of the last ptJka have frequent- 
y lost her the world, her own honor, and a respectable epitaph. To a vast 
number of women, in all ranks-of sodcty, life is. a commonplace, unmeaning 
interval between dances. — The lady <rf. fashion pads and rouges, spends a 
fortune in costume and cosmetics, and neglects her own duties and her 
children's education, that she may shine with irresistible splendor in the 
dance. In other ranks the pretty book-folder and the pale seamstress, 
the buxom consumed and the ambitious laundress, slave cheerfully all the 
week in the dreariest and most monotonous occupations, that they may ob- 
tain the means of making a handsome appearance at the Saturday night 
dance. The malefactor and his degraded companion, hunted by the Police 
and a price set upon their heads — seek the glaring cellar in the Five Points, 
and in the excitement of. the dance forget for a moment their infamy and 



(b, Google 



NEW YORK IN SLICES. 




looted byGoOgIc 



BALLS AND BELLES OF TAMMANY HALL. 113 

their danger. So we see that, in whatever circuraBtances we may he placed, 
an all-prevaihng impulse to put one's self into violent bodily exercise to any 
sort of an imitation of music, is sars to manifest itself. 

But however general may be the impulse to dance, it is at Tammany 
Hall that the heartiest, most genial, and altogether the thoroughest enjoy- 
ment of this inspiring pastime is to he witnessed. The halls Wt this stab- 
lishment may be taken as the perfected type of a class of amusements 
entirely characteristic of New York, and to be met with nowhere .else. It 
is usual for poor people to entertain a certain degree of envy for the 
amusements and dissipations of the rich ; but we are sure that no ray of 
that bad feeling ever found its way into the spacious dancing saloon of 
Tammany Ha31. There, all who enter come to give and receive pleasure ; 
and the idea that there can be a more superb' room for dancing, or a more 
sumptuous entertainment, never enters anybody's head. 

What first strikes you whoa entering the ball-room is the variety of cos- 
tume. No one style predominate*-^Mry one seeming, to have consulted 
her own individual independent taste, vriih but faint reference to those in- 
fallible giddies to tip-top gentility, the magazine fashion-plates. Crimson 
velvet bodices, and green barege Sikh's ; long sleeves, short sleeves, and 
no sleeves ; the balloon, the sack, the long dress, the. short dress, the high 
and the low ; all are intermingled, like a fancy ball fallen into a doze and 
confounding its costumes in a sort of wild dream-misture. The only uni- 
formity you see is in every woman having a pair of blooramg cheeks and 
sparkling eyes, ail glowing and beaming with happiness. The conversation 
Mid sraimeFS are free, and yet perfectly respectful and polite. The male 
portion of the assembly are apt to be somewhat of the roughest ; and 'hi 
bar-room is Glled with drinkers, and smokers, and tobacco-chewers, equally 
ready for an argument, a smasher, or a fight. But up-stairj every thing is 
entirely changed ; and, as a general thing,, affairs are conducted in the 
most exempl^y manner. 

Some of our readers may perhaps suppose that the dances at Tammany 
Hall are a httle antiquated, and lack we fascinating freshness which im- 
parts so agreeable an atmosphere to the soiries 3ansa»(es of *' Above 
Bieecker." But this is not the case. Since the invention of the Magnetic 
Telegraph, and the Revolution of February, Tammany Hall is as near 
Paris as Union Square ; and no new dance can make half-a-dozen gyrations 
in our aristocratic drawing-rooms before it is caught up and repeated in a 
style somewhat exaggerated, but far more exhilarating, on the bounding 
boards of Tammany Hall. It is true that the good old-fashioned cotillion 
and even tbe^jig and break-down, are not entirely abandoned ; but there is 
no lack of ambitious couples, gorgeous in brilliant vest and flying ribbon- 
streamers of many colors, standing ready on shore eager to take advantage 
of the -first opening between the undulations of the crowded floor, and 
plunge off liise a pair of adventurous bathers info all sorts of gyroflesEons,^ 
poika-ish, or otherwise. Gradually, couple by couple, the many tire and 
glide off reeling to their seats, or to seek refreshment in the restaurant; hut 
an ambitious couple — the "Mose" and " Lize" of the evening — «till keep it 
up with unflagging fervor, seeming to increase their momentum at every 
whirl. The company now gather round and begin to be eioited. The 
)lot thickens, and the game is made up. It is muscle and sinew against 
calgut. For a few minutes the race is as even as that of two 



(b.GoogIc 



Hi 



NEW YORK IN SLICES 



steamers on the Hudson ; but sotra the elbow-power of the principal fid- 
dler begms to relai — his tones come forth Huff and more feeble, and his 
tottered instrument ^ves a piercing and unearthly screBiB every time it 
comes to " the turn of the tune." Meanwhile upon the Soorthefua grows 
"fast and furious" — the spectators applaud, the dancers redouble thair 
esertJons, their faces glowing h'ke glass-blowers, or like lovers caught kiss- 
ing. At las't the despairing fiddier claps his left thumb khA forefinger to 
the nut of his E string — snap ! pop ! it is gone — the dance is finished and 
he saves his reputation. 

But if the dancing part of the business is characteristic, the mannerof 
supping and serving refreshments is no less so, Instead of the clumsy, in- 
convenient and altogether vexatious method usually employed, of crowdings 
every thing on a long table and driving the company down all at once to 
take a standee and a cold cut here and there of something they don't like, 
while every one sees his favorite dish disappearing down somebody else's 
throat— at Tammany Hall you select the time most agreeable to yourself or 
your partner, slip quietly with your lady down stairs, take a comfortable 
seat at a little table in the Restaurant, and order whatever you like, from a 
shilling stew and brandy without to a canvass-back and champagne ^ Here 
there are none to crowd you from your places, sqneeM you to calf's jelly, 
nor overhear every thing you choose to say ; and for a nice, quiet, comfort 
able bit of love-making — a thug which of all others we admire — there can- 
not be a more fitting jlace nor a more favorable opportunity than wMe 
taking your supper at a Tammany Hall baH. 

By midnight everybody has had suppct and is ready to r^eiv the annoys 
business of the night, and dandng is resumed with fourfold spirit, and lept 
up without mtermission until four o'clock, when the party breaks up and 
the grand rush for cloaks, hoods, and carrii^, takes place. The dehcate 
scramble attending this dainty operation is by no meaBs the least mterest 
ing and exciting part of the performances. Many a tender squeeze of the 
hand, and even innocent kiss, is exchanged between the owners of fluttering 
hearts, in the dim passages leading, to. the dressing-rooms; and many the 
pouting denial arid unexpected rebuff also encountered here. At length 
the last pair of "fantastic toes," with their pretty owner and her beau, 
have disappeared within the last cab, which whiris grumbling and cribbing 
with the cold up Chatham-street — the blood-red meteors on the balcony 
suddenly go out in darkness — the Boots seizes the occasion to lock the front 
(Joor — the bar-keeper crawls yawning up stairs to bed — and Tammany Hall, 
lately so gay and brilliant, is as dark and solitary as if it had just got news 
of a Whig victory. 



.yGoogIc 



THE AMERICAN ART-UNION. 



SUce mi.-THE AMERICAN ART-PNION. 

Come, dear reader, we have " supped full of horrors" — let us leave tlie 
sad and depressing task of dissecting tlie foams and corruption engine- 
dered in a large city. Let us now recreate ourselves with a lighter labor, 
and pause for a moment to admire the idea! beautiful, and permit tbe 
divine and soothing influences of Art to steal into our souls. Step with us 
into this long and smoothly-lighted gallery, opening conveniently from 
Broadway, and crowdedwith well-dressed ladies and gentlemen. This is 
the Free Gallery of the American Art-Union — an institution devoted excel- 
lively to the cultivafjon of the fine arts, and which has risen to wealth and 
wide reputation in a very few years, from very small beginnings. At first 
ifs income was scarcely over twenty-five hundred doUars'a year — now it 
amounts to near a hundred thousand, A very handsome business, truly ! 

The honor of first having applied the immense moral lever of combined 
effort and means to the advancement of the fine arts, belongs to Germany. 
It was there that, in 1823, Art-Uniona were invented, and the fii-at one 
established at Munich, which avowed for its object the promotion of mod- 
ern art and the encouragement of rising merit, by the purchase of pictures. 
The Berlin Association, which owed its existence principally to the efforts 
of the celebrated William Humboldt, who was its first President, and with 
whom were ^ociated the sculptors Ranch and Tick, the architect Schin- 
kel, the painters Wach'and Shadow, and other distinguished men. The 
success of these two associatioos stimulated the ambition of other parts of 
Germany, until in 1839 the number of Art-Unions was twenty-nine, with 
an annua] aggregate income of over one hundred thousand dollars. In 
1837 the London Ajt-Union was established, and its annual income, at first 
small, in 1846 exceeded seventeen thousand pounds sterling. Edinburg, 
Dublin, Manchester, Birmingham, and other British cities, each has also its 
flourishing Art-Union. In our own country, we have, in addition to the 
American Art-Union, similar institutions in Philadelphia, Boston, and Cin- 
cinnati ; and as these pages are being written, a prospectus has been issued 
for an International Art-Union, to purchase and distribute foreign pictures 
and works of art, to establish a free gallery of the works of modern Europe, 
and to send every year an American artist to study in Europe. 

The plan of all these associations is essentially the swne. " Each sub- 
scriber pays some small amount annually. This forms a fund, which, after 
defraying necessary expenses, is appropriated to the production of engram- 
vings, and the purchase of works of art. The engravings ai-e given to ail 
the subscribers, and the other works of art are distributed among them by 
lot. In the London association, money prizes are allotted instead of paint- 
ings, the holders being required to expend the money in the purchase of 
works from certain specified exhibitions. This plan has been adopted by 
the Philadelphia association. In nearly all the others, however, the worl^ 
distributed are selected by the managing committees; and an attempt is 
now being made by the Board of Trade, which has the supervision of the 
London Sodety, to have the same method adopted there. 



(by Google 




bade, Google 



THE AMERICAN ART-DNION. 117 

" The American Art-Union ia the only one in this country, which, from 
the extent of its operations, and the amount of its resources, can be called 
a nation^ institution. Its history is a striking proof of the peculiar adap- 
tation of its plan to the character and circumstances of our people. The 
rapidity with which it has grown in public favor, is altogether unpriced- 
dented. At the first anniversary meeting in December, 1839, the number 
of subscribers for that year was stated to be eight hundred and fourteen, 
and the amount received from them, four thousand one hundred and forty- 
five dollars. In 1841, the number of subscribers was nine hundred and 
thirty-seven, and but seven works of ait were distributed. Six years after- 
wards, in 1847, the subscribers had increased to nine thousand six hundred 
and cystitis; the receipts to forty-eight thousand seven hundred and 
thirty-three dollars and nmety-one cents, while nearly three hundred paint- 
ings were distributed, besides hundreds of medals in silver and bronze. 
Its prosperity during the present year Is still more remarkable. The Bul- 
letin of October 10th states, that for the few weeks previous to that date, 
the subscriptions were four timi^ as many as they were the last year during 
the corresponding period. A list of from twelve to fifteen thousand is con- 
fidently anticipated ; but the committee have determined, that whenever 
so much mijnBy is received as can be judiciously invested in paintings, the 
books will « peremptorily closed, although subscriptions received after- 
wards wiil be entered in their order at the head of the list for 1849,"* 

The distribution of the American Art- Union for this year is uncommonly 
rich, and veiy naturally attracts great attention. The Annual Engraving 
is to be from Huntington's picture of- "Queen Mary Signing the Death- 
Warrant of Lady Jane Grey;" and besides this, every subscriber will 
receive a copy of the new edition of Irving's " Rip Van "Winkle," illustrated 
by the exquisite pencil of Darley. The paintings and works of art already 
purchased for distribution during the present year, amount to nearly three 
hundred. Among them is the series of four allegorical pictures by Cole, 
the "Voyage of Life," 'painted for Mr. Ward, and for which the artist 
received six thousand dollars. There are also two fine landscapes by Du- 
rand ; the Mission of the Jews to Ferdinand and Isabella, by Louts ; the 
Strolling Musician, by Edmonds ; the Queen Mary of Huntington, (from 
which the Annual Engraving is being made;) the River of the Water of 
Life, by Church, the pupil of Cole ; a superb moonlight winter scene by 
Doughty ; with pictures of rare merit by Grey, Rossiter, Gignoux, Chap- 
man, Kensett, Cropsey, Hinckley, May, Wenzler, Audubon, Glass, Duggan, 
Oddie, Peele, White, and others. In addition to the pictures, a series of 
valuable medals is distributed annually among the subscribers. The medal 
for the present year is a bust of the celebrated portrait-painter Gilbert 
Stewart. Two hundred and fifty copies of this will be distributed, as well 
as two hundred of the Allston medals of 184'7, which have been so much 
admired. 

We have thus devoted an entire number of our series of City Sketches 
to a single institution — fearless of being accused of partiaUty by any who 
rightly appreciate the influences of the fine arts upon the morals and re- 
lineament of mankind. 

* Knickerbocker for Novendier. 



NEW YORK IN SLfCES. 



Slice ran.— THE ARTISTS' ART-UNION. 

Wb know not ivbether this be tte proper title under which to notice a 
laudable effort now being made, by several distinguished artists, to form an 
Association for the purpose of promoting the production of Historical Paint- 
ings, such as those of the Italian and Flemish schools. The American 
Art-Union does not require works that are too large for dwelling-houses: 
but as works of larger size are better for exhibitions, and for public build- 
ings, the artists think it expedient to attempt a new organization for &ie 
purpose of giving this direction to the efforts of Araerican genius. 

They are to establish a gallery, to he open during the whole year, as a 
place in which artists can show their works to the public, and dispose of 
them by direct sale. 

During part of the time their exhibition is to be a paying one ; the pro- 
ceeds lo be shared by those who furnish the works, in proportion to tha 
value of those works, for exhibition purposes. 

There is to be a provision for artists of merit, who, from infirmity or 
other misfortune, are unable to live with the comfort they deserve. But 
this provision is not to be wholly a matter of charity. It is intended to 
deduct from the receipts a cream percentage, which is to be added to the 
capital (rf. the institution, and to remain in it forever as capital, unless any 
one who had contributed should be in the condition above mentioned ; in 
which case he would be allowed to draw out his part of it, in such sums as 
his wants might require. And that part which' pMlaina to those who are 
not thus in want is to pay interest, (or profit,) to them or their heir, so 
long as the Institution shall esist, and to be drawn out only on the closing 
up of its concerns. 

In addition to this, there is to be a Benevolent Fund, composed of dona- 
tions, and of the proceeds of the exhibition *>i such works as may be loaned 
to the Institution for the benefit of that fund ; those works to be valued 
Bke the rest. 

As to the authority by which these values shall be determined, we do 
not learn that it is yet agreed on r but some, fearing that displeasure and 
secession would result from any mode au valuation among the associates 
themselves, think it best to choose from among connoisseurs a certain num- 
ber to whom this appraisal may be committed ; and to prevent the distaffs- 
faction that might.be felt, from causing any to withdraw, they think that 
no person should serve a second time in that capacity. 

If this plan should be successfully carried out in this city, it is intended 
to extend it to other parts, and invite the co-operation of other artists ; and 
lo have the works circulate, so that each shall be seen in all the principal 
cities. Besides giving their works the best opportunity of becoming known 
and purchased, it is Uiought that this system of exhibition will cause the 
production of works of that class which the Venetian and Florentine artists 
excelled in ; works of such dimensions as are too great for private houses, 
and suited on!j' to exhibitions.' 

As to the use of that capital which may result from t^e percentage of the 
general receipts, it is intended to loan it to artists who have works in the 



THK ARTIST.S- ABT-LfNlON. jjg 

exhibition, but in annts that are clearly less than the mfirket v;!lue of those 
works, so that the instituljpn may not be exposed to loss. And it is in- 
fended that the institution shall act as the custodier of works, in ease artists 
wish to borrow money Tspoti them &tolm frigate peisons. Thus an amhi- 
tioTis artist, having expended all he had or could borrow upon one great 
work, instead of being embarrassed for the next five yeajs, would he ena- 
bled to commence another at once, and so to continue his' labors. 

More might be said, had we rown, in favor of tie vnews thus briefly 
sketched ; but we can only give a glano* at the means of so fining a gal- 
lery as to bring together enough paying losers of art to furnish the money 
needful for the operations in the somewhat magnificat prospective. Look- 
ing at the works shown in the present exhibitions, we feel some confidence 
that the natured capacity for becoming great artists does exist, in many 
cases; b^t the practice in Siam, cheap, popular pictures, will not soon 
make a Titian, a Corregg^o, a Haffftelle, a Paul Yeroneae, or any other great 
artist : to develope such powers we must put them ob great uudwlakings, 
and keep them constantly employed on them. If this bo done, we feel 
assured that the refined portion of the community will find such a gallery 
worth visiting, and worth paying for. 

In connection with this subject we deem it proper to notice an Artist who 
has recently returned from Italy, bringing with him many copies, by him- 
self, from the best works of the Venetians, Correggio, and others. We 
allude to Mr. J. K, I'ishbb. He has copies of the following pictures : — by 
Titian, thfe Assumption of the Virgin, the Presentation of the Virgin at the 
Temple, the PetM Martyr, Cain and Abel, David tmd GcJiath, the two V-e- 
nuses of the Florentine Gallery, the Danae of the Museum in Naples, the 
Three Graces, Sacred and Profane Love, iuid several others ; by Corre^o, 
the St. Jerome, the Danae, the Madonna del Coniglio, the Mftrriage of St. 
Catharine, and some sketches ; by Paul Veronese, four of his principal pic- 
tures in Venice, and three in Bome and Florence ; by Tintoretto, the Ora- 
cifixion, and the Miracle of the Slave, esteemed as his two best worries ; by 
Raffaelle, the Innuendo del Borgo ; by Daniel di Voltaire, the Descent from 
the Cross ; and numerous small copies and sketches from the best color- 
ists. He is one of those who are in favor of this movement ; and, as 
his collection is composed of copies, of hberal size, from works of the blu- 
est excellence, we think he will be a welcome contributor to a gaDery which 
regards the wants of true taste, so far as to admit something tha* will give 
us an idea of the great masters, whose original works are nowhere to be 
found in this country. 

In point of execution and coloring, these copies are regarded as excel- 
lent, by the professional and other connoisseurs who have seen them. We 
do not hesitate to say that non^ better have been brought to this country. 
The original works of this artist show that he has imbibed the principles of 
the Venetian colorists : indeed, some of them are praised as copies from 
the great masters, by those who do not know whom they were des^ned by. 

Mr. Fisher is glad to receive the visits of artists, and the friends of art, 
whenever be is not engaged with sitters. We advise all such to avail 
themselves of the Opportunity to see a collection which, if not of so mucli 
account in the market as "undoubted originals" would be, is far more Ac- 
ceptable to true taste than the works we have seen liere, called by the 
names of "fitian, Eiffel, Rubens, &c. His rooms are at No. 179 Broadway. 



Slice XXIffl.-THE BOWERY. 

If our Muse would condescend to array herself in a bright red shawl, 
trio hair-cloth skirts, and a bonnet, whose periphery, aectionally and hori- 
zonally, should he on a parallel with the acute point of the angle of her 
nose, we might hope that she would. inspire us with some worthy de- 
scription of the Bowery ; but as there is no hope of a poor scribbler hav- 
ing any such honor, while the b'hoys are so plenty, and wear such fiery 
red shirts, and drive such fast nags, and chew such gigantic quids of to- 
back, we myst content ourselves — and we hope our readers — with plain 
Srose. Wot to mention, then, the Bowery Theatre, the grand National 
ircus on the other side, Vauxhall and its dependencies, we may simply 
characterize the Bowery as the place where slang comes from. " Well, it 
am't any thing else !" " Why don't you come ^nag I" 

If one would get a correct idea of what the Bowery boys and gals can 
do, when they put their best foot forward, let hira attend the Bowery The- 
atre on New Year's or Christmas eve. The whole immense area of the 
house looks like a hot-bed of exotic and high-colored plants and Sowers, 
packed so closely together that it ia difficult to conceive how a breath of 
air ever finds its way between them. But to judge from the noisy lung- 
exercise of the evening, m which all classes participate, and seem emulous 
to see who can contribute most to swell the merry and riotous chorus, as 
to the performances on the stage, they are neither here nor there. Com- 
pared with the performances in the audience, the ranting and bellowing 
and spasmodic galvanism of the actors on the stage, are quite tame and 
commonplace. ■' Hello, Bill Swipes ! You up in the second tier ! Who 

de guv yer de extra shillin' V " Come out of that, you Jo Brewer ! 

Why don't yer come along !" " I say, Jim ! ain't this high ? Have yer 

salooned yer gal yet?" " Qet off my toes! Keep yer sharp 

elbows out o' my ribs ! Take that be J ! Watch ! murder ! Take 

him off! Hyst der rag ! Go it I Sh-sh-sh-h-h !" and so up goes the 
curtMn, the orchestra blows and kicks, and the actors go on in perfect 
dumb-show — not a syllable nor a squeak being heard by the uproarious, 
joyous audience. 

The Bowery has its " fashionable side," too, as well as Broadway ; and 
here, in fine weather, you may see a procession of absolutely the hand- 
somest women in America. Red cheeks and Hps, eyes sparkling, and round 
ripe forms palpitating with health, and that exuberant fullness of life which 
makes the chief fascmation in woman, and which fashionable dissipation so 
soon destroys — these are the characteristics of Bowery beauty. It may 
be true that these plump and hearty divinities betray some little bizarrerie 
m the selection of colors and the cut of their dresses, yet they believe that 
it is exactly the thing ; and whenever they take the trouble to think of the 
poor pale-faced creatures of Broadway, they actually and heartily pity 

The Bowery is celebrated for its drinking and gambling-houses, its 
poultry-raffling shops, and its " crack" ice-cream saloons. It is the graid 



THE BOWERY. 



121 



parade-ground of the " b'hoys" and " g'hals," the arena where " high-life 
below stairs" makes its grandest demonstrations ; and to a philosopher a 
walk through the Bowery would furnish abundant food for thought and 
contemplation. 

The business operations of the Bowery, although they are generally 
somewhat lost sight of under the " highfaluting" reputation of that cele- 
brated thoroughfare, are nevertheless of no insignificant nor unvaried char- 
acter. In faet, every careful housewife in New York can inform you that 
you can purchase any conceivable article you may stand in need of, from 
an apple -sauce-kettle to a baby's cap, at least twenty-five per cent, cheaper 
and better in the Bowerj- than anywhere else in the city. And as for Hats 
and Boots, and especially Ready-made Clothing, a man must be a perfect 
green-horn who would think of going anywhere else to spend his money. 

Why, it is only the other day — ^just before , getting ready to make our 
Kew Year's calls — that, flndmg our best black coat rather seedy at the el- 
bows.^^our don't-know-what-to-cail-'ems grievously afflicted with "knee- 
holes," and our waistcoat minus several of its most important buttons, we 
dropped in upon our friend Stiles — Captain Stiles — at tlie corner of Walker- 
street and the Bowery, Such forests of pantaloons ! Such oceans of 
waistcoats ! Such plantations of faultless coats ! The only difficulty we 
encountered was in making a choice from such a s|perabundance of ele- 
gance. And as for money — why that was positi^y no object at aJl. 
Having taken with us about the usual price of a, suit of " extra black su- 
perfine," we discovered, after laying aside, and paying for every thing we 
wanted for a complete rig, that we had money enough left to fit out our 
eldest son — a good strapping chunk of a boy of eighteen — with a complete 
suit from top to toe, and to supply our youngest daughter with spending- 
money for the best part of a qua-ter. It is true that this is perhaps the 
most extensive and complete eatablisninent of the kind either in the Bow- 
ery or the city ; and to which all classes of population rush for their sup- 
plica of clothing. Yet there are hundreds of other large concerns in the 
Bowery ^well worth especial consideration — if we only had plenty of time 
and money. Captain Stiles himself, the principal of the establishment we 
have been mentioning, is a man whose personal history is romantic and 
interesting enough to form a chapter by itself; but as we haven't yet 
arrived at the biographical phase of our literary existence, all this must 
be passed over, until, as Dogberry says, " there be no need of such van- 
ities." 

In the upper part of the Bowery we are arrested by a crowd standing in 
front of a large show-window of a looking-glass and frame warehouse, be- 
tween Spring and Prince streets. This is the famous Looking-glass and 
Picture-frame Manufactory of Me. JoHNso.-fl, 204 Bowery — where every 
variety of these articles is not only sold but manufactured, in the most 
exquisite and perfect manner. His location in the Bowery subjecting him 
to far Jess expense in the way of rent, &c., than the pretentious and sot- 
dUant fashionable dealers, he is not only able to furnish, but does furnish 
every article in his line from 10 to 20 per cent, cheaper than other and 
more _ showy establishments. It is a fact perfectly self-evident, that the 
proprietors of these gorgeous and expensive establishments expect to re- 
chive the interest on the capital thus locked up in useless embellishment, 
out of the pockets of their customers. To judge from the great success of 



122 NEW YORK I^ SLICES. 

Hr, Johnson's estaMshment during the few past years, these facts a^pest 
' to he pretty well understood. 

If we step inside of this establishment, we shall find the most complete 
stock of looking-glasses, of every sort and Mze, from 12^ cts. to $200, many 
of them of the newest ani most bnlltant styles and patterns. The picture- 
frame department, too, is most extensile and complete, and the whole 
establishment b well worth Msitmg by those who wish to 6ity. But to re- 
turn to th'e window. 

The most striking features of the place however, are the/eatures of gen- 
alemen and ladies, so naturally and truthfully painted as to startle the 
spectator into the belief that he sees before him roal men and women en- 
cased in frames. These portraits are the production of Messi*. Miller and 
Hillier, who have acquired a reputation, within a few years past, for accu- 
racy and expression in theif portraits, second to none in the country. Their 
painting-rooms are at 16 Kington street, a few doors east of the Bowery. 

These gentlemen attribute their great success in portrait- painting to their 
peculiar method, which is a division of labor and study in each portrait — 
the department of one artist being drawing, thai of the other color; while 
both combine, in mutual criticism and suggestion, to produce that animated 
identity of espression. without which, however well executed, a portrait 
may be a mere madjif the face. 

The ad%-antage w*h they derive from this novel co-operation in art b, 
that while it relieves cacti artist from the fatigue and blunted perceptions 
which invariably attend a too long and tedious study of the same subject, 
it also assists them in giving to each sitting an easy, conversational, at-hotae 
sort of character, which develops the more familiar ej^Mission of counte- 
nance so desirable to the intimate friends and relatives of the original, and, 
by a natural consec|uence, requiring fewer and less tedious sittings, and es- 
empting from the necessity of after-corrections and alterations. 

Averring themselves of the assistance' of a skilful artist in painting their 
draperies, backgrounds, &c., Messrs. Miller and Hillier confine their atten- 
tion entirely to the likeness, and the result has met their most sanguine an- 
ticipations. 

These artists jum simply at charaCleriitk portraiture; and those who 
desire, under the name of portraits, merely pretty pictures or artistic ^ec- 
tations, will of coursff'go where they can obtain them. They are well con- 
vinced by past experience that daily study and practice will best enable 
them to sustain their present reputation for Faithful Likeness, and that a 
moderate rate of charges is most likely to supplythem with that full prac- 
tice which they require. Thus they have resisted every temptation to in- 
crease their charges, offered by the flattering extent of their reputation, and 
consume to believe that they are better and more satisfactorily remunerated, 
while at the same time much more agreeably employed, than they could be 
with fewer pictures and higher prices. 

Having long since observed the fact, that a satisfactory portrait is pro- 
ductile property to the artist for years after it has passed out of his pos- 
session, while an unsatisfactory one under the same circumstances is a 
coastant source of injury, they have established a rule on the subject which 
Ihey intend to abide by, — that they will allow no portr^t to leave then- 
possession until its likeness is fairly tested, and will receive payment for no 
picture unless accompanied by mitetiuivoc^ expression of satisfaction. This 



THE BOWERY. 133 

is taking strong ground ; but they refer, with a justifiable pride, to the pos- 
sessors of more than five hundred of their portraits in this city and its 
vicinity (many of' them copies made aft^ death from daguerreotypes) for 
their cheerful corroboration of the fact. 

There ! For a good, strong, sensible piece of artistic criticism, we think 
that will match Kit North or Jolm Neal; and Messrs. Miller and Hillyer 
may bless their lucky stars for the chance that brought The Slicer among 
the crowd before their lifelike pictures. Henceforth they are as famous as 
they deserve to be. Could more be said ? 

Good-by, Bowery ! "We might linger for many and many a page amid 
tiy pquant and exciting scenes ; but even as we lay down our pen to light 
our last " Leone d'Oro," and puff away care, a grim-visaged imp appeareth 
at fflur den-window, holding out both hands for copy, and exclaiming, " Why 
don't yon come along — a-a-y !" 



138 NEW YORK IN SLICES. 

a perfect non-conductor. For marine and national purposes, the field ia 
also most extensive ; as inside sheathing for ships, for buoys and beacons, 
it is supposed to resist, for all time, vermin and decay. For army and navy 
equipmenta, canvas, dect-covers, car-covers, sails and rigging, it is admira- 
ble, — being impervious to damp, mildew and rot-^-as also for cannon- covers, 
Tater-tanks, life-boats, " Atkinson's" improved plan for reUeving stranded 
and sunken vessels, for suif-boats, taking qS cargoes, and lightening over 
sand-bars, and innumerable other applications, it is destined to supersede 
all other materials. ^ ■ 

Gutta Percha was first introduced into England for manufacturing pur- 
poses, by Richard Archibald Brooman, to whom letters patent were grant- 
ed in 1844 and 1845. Other patents were subsequently granted to other 
persons for its application to bookbinding, boots and shoes, hats, Ac, 
and in 1846, letters patent were granted to a Quaker of Dublin, by 
Bewley, for its application to the manufacture of flexible syringes 
Subsequently Bewley and others purchased all the patents in England, 
formed a gigantic company, enlisting in it many of the members of the East 
India Company, and at once commenced the manufacture of the article in 
all its then known branches — applying at the same time for patents m 
France, Germany and the United States. They also established agencies 
at Singapore, (East Indies,) and all along the Malay coast, (where alone 
the tree grows,) for the purpose of including in thar monopoly the pro- 
duction of the raw material. 

In the spring of 1847, our fellow-townsman, Mr. S. T. Armstrong, visited 
London, upon invitation, and perfected arrangements with the English com- 
pany for the introduction of the Gutta Percha manufacture Into the United 
States, and also for procuring the raw material. He returned in the fall; 
and having completed the necessary machinery, commenced the first man- 
ufacture of Gutta Percha in the United States. The business at once as- 
sumed an important rank, and has gone on steadily increasing ; until, as 
has been already slated, the Company has found it absolutely necessary to 
triple or quadruple its present basis of operations. 

Thus is our space twice over occupied, and we have mentioned but two 
out of our two thousand manufacturing establishments. We give up in 
despair. 